 Dear friends, I'm father Kirill and welcome to our new video channel.
 First of all let me introduce to you who we are, what we do and what we're going to talk about.
 Just before we do that I want to let you know that this project began as an outcome of the
 pandemics. Any bad thing can bring about some good results. People cannot come to the church
 so the priests and missionaries need to reach out, need to bring out the word of God to everyone.
 And this channel is created for anyone who can listen, who can understand English,
 no matter whether you believe in Christ or you don't, whether you're orthodox or you're not,
 you're welcome to come over and you'll find some relevant interesting stuff here.
 So first of all who we are. This is a Russian orthodox mission in Taiwan. Right now I'm
 located in the orthodox parish of the exaltation of the Holy Cross in Taipei, Taiwan. And this is
 where we do mission in Taiwan and also in the other countries nearby in the Philippines East
 Timor and Papua New Guinea and other places. Now through internet we can do mission anywhere
 and we hope that these videos can reach United States, Canada, Latin America, Africa, all those
 places. Okay so why and what we're going to talk about. The goal of this channel is for those
 who believe in Christ already to awaken faith, to bring the orthodox perspective on many issues and
 things, to answer some difficult questions. And it is going to be a missionary channel
 which is not loaded with difficult theology but it's applied to everybody's lives.
 We're going to talk about issues in personal life, issues in social life events that happen
 in the world and to see how is it related to the gospel. How does the gospel apply to these things
 and for example many people are talking about apocalypses right now and the revelation.
 We're going to talk about those things also. Okay and for those who are not Christian
 the main task is to get you interested so that you can see that in Christ and through Christ
 we can find answers to many questions and you will be able to reconsider your life,
 your world view and many things will become more clear. We will share our faith and
 we'll invite other speakers to discuss various issues related to science, related to
 different countries, cultural things and all of that is going to be here on this channel.
 Okay so for those who are already believing in Christ, here we will discuss what is spiritual
 life. What does it take to reach salvation? Things like this which are of great interest
 but not many people think about it and know about it. Okay we will talk about how to receive
 messages from God and how to discern these messages and how to change ourselves so that
 we can follow what God wants us to do. What is God's will and how do we follow it? Okay
 but I really hope that what we talk about is going to be very practical, very relevant
 and you will enjoy it. Okay so very welcome to come over to see and I will announce our first
 video which is coming. It is going to be about why devil is portrayed as a snake,
 why it's not a pig, why it's not a dog, why it's a snake in the Bible and how is it related
 to our life and how devil relates to our lives. Okay so this is going to be the first topic
 because all of us are warriors of Christ and we need to learn how to win the devil both inside us
 and in this world. Okay so may God bless every one of you and see you very soon. God bless.
