 Dear friends, it's our first topic today and we're going to talk about why the devil is depicted as
 a snake. Okay, well, we don't really care about devil and it just happened to be that this is our
 first topic, not because it's very important, but I think you'll find it interesting. We see in the
 genesis that the devil as a snake comes and tempts Adam and Eve and they commit the sin and then we
 have the fall of humans and they are promised by God to receive a savior, salvation, who will come
 and it is Jesus Christ. Okay, so why snake? Why it's not a pig? It's not a goat. It's not a dog.
 Why it's a snake? There are several reasons to that. First of all, a snake moves on its belly.
 Okay, it moves on its belly and this is what devil wants people to be like. The devil wants people to
 live only by their belly, what they want to eat to satisfy their hunger, only about material stuff,
 only about tasty food, about a comfortable life, about some material goods. So the devil tries to
 convince the people that the most important stuff for them is how to feed themselves,
 how to provide for their basic necessities. And you'll ask me what's wrong with that because
 there is this theory of Maslow's needs that first you need to satisfy the pyramid of needs,
 first you need to satisfy your hunger and then other needs later. Well, the great trick is that
 indeed there are some necessary needs that you need to fulfill. But this doesn't mean that they
 are the most important in your life. For example, we need to breathe. If we don't breathe, we'll die.
 No, oxygen will die. But nobody is saying that this is the main goal of your life to find oxygen
 and breathe. This is the goal of your life. This is nonsense. We don't even think about it.
 In the same way, God wants us to aim at high values, to have some very important tasks,
 and He tells us that He will provide for everything else. Not that we don't care about it,
 we do, but it's not our main goal in life and first priority. But the devil wants us to live
 contrary to God's will and that's why he wants us to live not by our heart, not by our mind,
 he wants us to live by our belly. This is Bible symbology, the symbols. That's the first reason.
 Another reason is that it's related to it that the snake moving in the grass on the ground
 is eating whatever falls down on this ground. And very often it has to eat those animals who
 are decomposing and some other fruits or other stuff which becomes filthy and spoiled. And this
 is what becomes the main food of the snake. So in the same way, devil wants people to be fed
 not by word of God, not by some something which has true value and that can feed human heart,
 but he wants us to be fed by different surrogates. He gives us this modern stuff, some gadgets or
 some cars, just a piece of metal, and wants us to think that this is the most important.
 To enjoy not nice music but some garbage music. To be concerned about all kinds of low and
 unimportant stuff, unimportant in the eyes of God. So whatever drops on the ground
 is the food of the snake. So all that garbage the devil wants us to be fed and to live upon
 this garbage. And the God wants us to live differently and to receive different kind of food,
 different kind of feeling what fills our heart, food for our heart. This is another important
 meaning. Another meaning why it's a snake is that the snake is speaking by whispering, you know,
 something like this. This is what is the tongue, the language of a snake.
 And the devil is bringing his message in a similar way. He is not telling you directly. So it's
 creating all kinds of noise. We see when we, for example, we hear some advertisements. It's a lot
 of background noise and music and stuff and some message is brought to you so that you will grasp
 that message and you will go and buy that stuff. And when we hear some bad suggestions, something
 which is tempting us, usually it comes in a low voice. Maybe some person who tell you,
 who is telling you, well, you can betray somebody or you can steal that thing or you can
 avoid your responsibilities or something else. It is always done in that way more often. And
 when our thoughts, also some evil bad thoughts come, they come like a whisper, like a whispering
 in our ear. And this is why the devil is depicted as a snake. So we need to guard ourselves from
 all kinds of noises, because when we are in this noise, we know that when we come back from work,
 from the market, from anywhere, this noise which we heard outside is still in our head.
 We need to let it come down and only then we can make some important decisions.
 So we need to avoid decisions which are done, which are made like quickly in a rush, in some
 kind of noisy environment. Because those decisions might be inspired by the devil and they will bring
 us to suffering. So the fourth reason is that the snake, when it's moving, it's bending.
 It doesn't have the straight figure. It is not facing you directly. It is coming like that.
 And this is related to the treacherous nature of the devil. The devil is a liar. We know that he
 is a father of all lies. So he would never tell you things directly. And whenever we hear any
 message which has a lie in it or some kind of manipulation, some kind of tricks in it,
 be sure that it's coming from the devil or it's approved by the devil. So this is another
 reason why the snake is associated with the devil. Another reason, number five. The reason is that
 the snake has a poison and when it comes there is a great danger that it will bite you and you will
 die. And this is also what happens when we are in some communication with the devil. There must be
 no communication, no dialogue. It's just goodbye, okay? Finished. There is no compromise. There is
 no negotiation between us and devil or demons or whatever. Evil people, we close all communication.
 We don't talk to people who want to bring us to sin or who are criminals or spoiled. We just
 say, okay, sorry, I am busy. I don't have time for that, okay? So this is what we need to learn
 from that. And the last reason. We remember that the Lord, he said that the children of Eve, that
 they will crush the seed which will come from a woman, will crush the head of a snake. But a snake,
 and that is talking about Jesus Christ, and the snake is going to bite him, son of man,
 in the heel, in his foot, in the heel. This has deep theological meaning, talking about Christ,
 but here I'm gonna mention only how it applies to anyone, to any person. Well, the devil,
 he can bite us in the heel, and that means in the flesh, in something which is basic. Because
 any human has flesh, okay? We have flesh and we need to eat, okay? And we have other instincts
 and other bodily attributes, okay? We have eyes. So he is able to use this, our members, our senses,
 whatever relates to our carnal nature. He can use it in order to hurt us, to bite us, and to
 harm us, and eventually to destroy, to kill our souls, because his task is to destroy.
 So these are the messages which we get from this image of devil as a snake, okay? So we need to be
 on guard, we need to know what the devil is like, how can he spoil our life, and we need to learn
 how to guard ourselves from these things. We remember also that Emperor Constantine, who brought
 Christianity to become the main faith in the Roman Empire, the great Roman Empire, that above his head
 when he had on the throne, he was sitting on the throne, there was an image of a snake being pierced
 through, it was an image of a cross above his head, and also an image, a painting with the snake being
 pierced through. And that meant that now the paganism, this religion which is egoistic,
 which is serving the mammon, is now killed and it's now trampled over and his power is overthrown.
 So this is what we need to do. We need to overthrow the devil, let him not work in our hearts,
 in our families, and in this world, okay? And may God bless you, and give you strength,
 and give you wisdom.
