 Dear friends, just yesterday one of our American parishioners asked me about the religious
 situation in Russia over the past few months, and he told me that it might be interesting
 to many people in Russia and in other countries, and I think it's quite relevant to everyone,
 both Orthodox and non-Orthodox.
 Well, to answer his question, I would need to address several topics.
 And the first topic to talk about is the question of whether we can get infected in the church
 and in receiving the Holy Communion, because many issues arise from this question.
 And there is a disagreement within the church about some basic questions.
 So let us first address this issue and make it more clear what is the correct answer.
 Because there are two basic positions.
 One is fundamentalist, and there are like radical fundamentalists who say that by no
 means we can get infected while receiving the Holy Communion.
 Why?
 Because this is the body of Christ, it's healing us, it's a miracle that we need to receive
 with faith and not afraid of anything.
 And there is some truth to this position.
 And most radical ones would say that even while you are in the church you cannot get
 infected, because everything is holy, God is here, and he would not allow any bad thing
 to happen to you.
 So this is one position.
 Right away we can say that this doesn't work like that, because many people do get infected
 in the churches.
 And we cannot say for sure if anyone gets infected while taking the Holy Communion,
 you cannot trace it that precisely.
 Did anyone get infected while receiving the Holy Communion or later while kissing the
 chalice or while drinking the drink after that?
 We cannot say exactly if anyone got infected precisely during the moment of Holy Communion,
 receiving the Communion.
 But we will talk about this in a while.
 Another position is the exact opposite.
 Basically some church people say that yes, people can get infected and they have no insurance
 against infection in the same way as any other people in any other place they would get infected
 in the church during Communion and any time.
 So there is no difference whatsoever.
 This is a liberal view and indeed some people are saying that.
 So where is the truth?
 And the truth is in the middle as always.
 The basic question that we need to ask ourselves is whether we are in Christ and with Christ.
 This is the first question.
 And if we are, if we would be in Christ, then nothing can harm us, neither in the church
 nor somewhere else unless God allows this to happen.
 And another thing that we would be ready to die any moment because we are in Christ with
 Christ.
 So we would not be afraid of death any moment.
 So this what would be the case in case we are in Christ and with Christ and our faith
 is fine.
 Which is sadly enough is not the case for most of us, most of the time.
 So we remember the words of Christ that if you drink anything poisonous it would not
 harm you.
 You can take snakes, poisonous snakes in your hands and nothing will happen to you.
 But he is telling this to his disciples who have full faith and who will heal the sick,
 they will resurrect other people and they will do a lot of miracles which we don't do
 right now.
 So we cannot be sure, most of us, if not all of us, cannot be sure that we are fully in
 Christ and everything is fine with our faith, okay.
 Especially the church leaders who are responsible for making the decision of whether people
 should come to the church or they should stay home.
 They cannot be sure if everybody who comes to the church is in such a state and his faith
 is mature.
 Okay, so this is one thing.
 Another important thing to consider is that we can get infected while receiving the Holy
 Communion and there is no lack of faith in such a statement.
 And this is not a liberal statement, okay.
 Because let's see, many people who were receiving Communion during the time of Apostle Paul,
 he is writing to them and saying that many of you die and many get sick and some of you
 die.
 Why?
 Because you receive the Holy Communion without proper preparation and proper state of mind.
 And you receive it to your condemnation and this is why you get sick and you die.
 So when we have the wrong state of mind and receive the Holy Communion, this may be harmful
 to us and we may get sick and die even without coronavirus, okay.
 So basically there are three reasons why we can die, we can get sick and die while receiving
 Holy Communion.
 The first one is if we are in the wrong state of mind and we approach the Holy Communion
 without deep repentance and understanding and veneration of this great sacrament.
 Another one is that, okay, we are in the right state of heart and we're really serious about
 receiving the Holy Communion, however we are afraid of the coronavirus and we are afraid
 that we can get sick while receiving the Holy Communion, taking the spoon and you know how
 it's done.
 So in such case the Lord may allow this to happen in order for us to change our mind.
 You are afraid, okay, you are afraid of that, you are more afraid of losing your health
 than eternal life.
 So you will get it, okay, you will get this thing.
 So this is another situation and yet another situation that can happen is that we are not
 afraid at all and we have strong faith and there is everything fine with our faith and
 we approach the Holy Communion despite the coronavirus and any other thing and we get
 infected.
 Why?
 Because Lord wants us to see, well you trust me, you are willing to be with me, will you
 have this faith in case I allow this thing to happen to you, will you still be as faithful
 and He is testing our faith to allow it to grow, become even stronger.
 That regardless of anything, even with the experience of getting infected on the Communion,
 you will be still loyal to our Lord and trust Him unconditionally, then this will be even
 more mature faith and He can allow this to happen to us.
 So we can see that this can happen and there are three different reasons why we can get
 infected and we should not be afraid of that at all.
 Therefore we need to take all precautions, every possible necessary precaution for going
 to church, for receiving the Holy Communion, whatever we can do, both the priests and the
 faithful who receive the Communion, we should do and there is no lack of faith about that.
 So we can see that neither the fundamentalist position is correct nor the liberal position.
 The liberal position is wrong because it says that just don't go to church, just stay home,
 just take care about your health and that's it.
 But this means that we value our health and human life and we value our life on earth
 more than our union with Christ and our eternal life.
 So that for a mature Christian the coronavirus must not influence his decision to receive
 the Holy Communion and to be in the church on this Sunday.
 It has to have no influence, the only thing that can be influenced and that he has to
 do is to take all the precautions and to be strong in his faith, in his repentance, in
 the way he prepares for the Holy Communion, but this must not prevent him from being in
 the church, on the liturgy, on Sunday and receiving the Holy Communion.
 This has to be unconditional.
 So if the Lord would allow this to happen, it is he who would allow this to happen.
 If somebody leaves hope, putting his hope in the Lord, he would not think that this
 could be just a misfortune, okay, just because of some misfortune I receive this sickness,
 I get infected and I die, say.
 This would not be a misfortune, this would be allowed by God for some purpose, even if
 he has to die.
 That would be the greatest gift from the Lord if he would, okay, end his life, it would
 be time for him to maturely unite with Christ and the Lord would receive his soul.
 So we must not be afraid of this coronavirus at all.
 We are only afraid of sin.
 Any Christian is afraid of sin, of breaking away from God, but not of anything else, including
 disease, death, anything, we're not afraid of that, but we are cautious of that, okay.
 So the Lord said be cautious of people because they can grasp you and put you into some trial
 and put you in prison and kill you, be cautious, be cautious but not be afraid, okay.
 So let us not be afraid of that and let us have this right understanding of the principle
 regarding going to church and receiving the Holy Communion.
 So we can say that closing the churches during this virus is a mistake.
 When the church leaders close the churches, this is a mistake because during other times
 people, Christians would pray even more and during Saint Gregory the Deologos there were
 even more processions of the cross and public prayers, even more, and some people died during
 those prayers, but this did not stop them from praying together so that this sickness
 can go and indeed as a result there were much less deaths and this plague finished.
 So it is important to pray and to pray even more during these times of temptation and
 these times of some persecution and punishment, disasters allowed by the Lord to happen.
 So this is clearly a mistake and this can create issues in the people of God, especially
 when it's not explained well to the people, okay.
 So this is a mistake but it is also a mistake to say there is no virus and we just do anything
 as we used to because we have our trust in the Lord and we don't take any measures of
 precaution because they show our lack of faith and because this is betrayal of Christ and
 so on.
 So this radical position is also very immature and very destructive.
 This is like tempting God to do miracles especially for you and we're not tempting the Lord.
 If we can get precautions against something, if we have say some kind of disaster, we do
 all we can to avoid any harm.
 We don't say we just don't care and we just go and we just face this disaster.
 We still do that and there is no lack of faith in it.
 So let us have no fear and have this mature understanding of the principle how we treat
 this coronavirus problem, okay.
 If we have that, it will be easier for us to understand what's happening now in Russia
 and in other places with respect to this coronavirus which became like the temptation that is stumbling.
 Many people have stumbled because of this temptation, okay.
 May God help us, give us strong faith and strong health.
 God bless.
