 Dear friends, today's topic is very important, both practically and spiritually.
 How do we treat money, wealth, and everything that is related to it?
 Because we remember that Christ himself, he said that for the rich man it is very difficult
 to reach the Kingdom of Heaven.
 It is almost impossible.
 It's easier for the camel to enter into the needle's ear than for a rich man to enter
 into the Kingdom of Heaven.
 And how critical this is in our times.
 Because what we learn from this society, these values, that money is the most important thing.
 And that nobody will take care of you unless you take care of yourself.
 So you need to work hard, and get a lot of money, and reach financial freedom, and other
 things.
 So we need to clarify what does it mean?
 Why is it difficult for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven?
 And how do we change our values, our attitude towards wealth?
 We can learn from the experience of many Christians and many saints.
 But first of all, we need to understand that the main problem is that there is some kind
 of antagonism between material goods and spiritual things.
 The Kingdom of Heaven, the commandments of Christ, the eternal life.
 There is some kind of tension between the two.
 But we are material.
 So this is what makes it difficult for us to just forget about money and just forget
 about any earthly things and just think only about God and spiritual matters.
 So where is that balance?
 Where is that balance and what is the change that Christ wants us to make in order for
 us to be truly Christians?
 To be truly Christians and not pagans.
 Because for a pagan mindset, and most of us we have a pagan mindset, what's most important
 is what brings benefit to me.
 So pagans have a lot of different idols, gods, and they can get in a relationship with them
 so that everybody can provide something beneficial.
 And the main God is God of prosperity for pagans because everything, all the main resources,
 they come from this God.
 And this is mammon.
 And we remember that from Old Testament times until church times, all the deviations from
 faith when people fell away were in the direction of mammon.
 And what's mammon?
 Mammon is a representative of wealth, riches, money, comfort, and everything that's related
 with this earthly well-being and prosperity.
 And when this becomes the main value and the main task for a man, he becomes a servant
 of mammon and there is no place for God in his life.
 So this actually is a problem of church.
 Because when the church's mindset becomes like the worldly organization, it loses the
 grace of God.
 It loses this communion with God.
 It loses its mission, its function.
 The soul becomes not salty.
 So how do we go about having both life in this world and serving God?
 Okay.
 There are two ways.
 For someone who is willing to follow Christ, there are two ways.
 One way is a radical way.
 We saw in the early church history that many people, they just sell everything they had
 and they just followed Christ and the apostles anywhere they went.
 And they lived almost like angels because they had no earthly material concerns.
 Whatever today God provides to me, I eat somewhere, I rely on God completely.
 So that is one way.
 Another way is a more immediate way.
 This way is like a little bit lacking from the radical Christianity.
 However, it is also possible.
 And many people went this way.
 This is a way which is sort of acceptable because of the fallen nature of this world.
 That person still has some property, some financial resources, however, and very important
 thing, for him, all of those properties and financial things do not become the main treasure.
 For him, still the main treasure is in the heavens.
 And anytime he is ready in his heart to let all of that disappear or to walk away and
 to forfeit all of that.
 For him, that would not bring a terrible catastrophe or a tragedy.
 He has this readiness in his heart.
 So this is our task.
 While we are living in this world and not all of us are able to make that radical decision,
 maybe go to monastery, live in a monastery or some other way, we still stay in this world.
 We have bills to pay, we have our responsibilities, we have our relatives.
 Some of them rely on us, on our income, and we are dealing with these material things.
 The very important thing is that for us, money becomes just numbers and some possibilities.
 And it doesn't become something we attach our heart to.
 It becomes only numbers and we just use it to reach certain goals.
 This is one thing.
 Another thing is that for us, money is not belonging to us, it doesn't belong to me.
 This is the normal way of thinking.
 I earn it, it's the fruits of my self-daddy sacrifice, I sacrifice my time, my energy,
 my talents, and this is mine.
 Now it's this income, be it wages, salary, or it's some kind of profit if you run a business.
 This is completely mine.
 This mindset is wrong, it's fundamentally wrong.
 We need to treat any material resource, including money, as entrusted to us by God.
 And we have the responsibility to use it according to the will of God and to understand what
 God wants me to do in order to fulfill his will.
 And I feel this responsibility, it's almost like some kind of fear.
 This is piety, that we use it in the right proper way.
 So a Christian would never just waste his money, would never do crazy things with it,
 it will be used in a proper way.
 We need to be wise about that and responsible.
 Another important thing that we need to keep in mind if we are willing to be Christians,
 to have the mindset of a Christian, is that when we work or we run a business, for us
 this is a ministry.
 This is not just a way of making money, this is some kind of service to the people and
 to God himself.
 This should be our understanding that we have some kind of mission entrusted to us by God
 and that we carry on that mission.
 We do something good for the people.
 And more than that, we can and we should have some even higher mission.
 For example, we produce some product, cups or something else, we can also, if we are
 boss of this company, we can dedicate some of this production, like say 10% or some kind
 of volume, to be used for, say, poor people in some country, or for orphans and widows,
 or for someone else.
 We just donate this amount.
 And this deed of mercy will bless the rest of our business.
 And if we say we are just a worker or we have some occupation in the labor force, we can
 also use our work environment to do some good things, say, to spread the word of God in
 the company with our co-workers or do something else.
 Use this sort of platform, these circumstances at work to do some mission for God also.
 It could be just some deed of mercy, something useful for people, something encouraging for
 people.
 It could be deed of mercy, it could be something like that.
 Even spread the word of Christ, if this is not against the rules of the company.
 So this mission, which would be sort of on top, would be something that is blessing the
 rest of our job or business.
 This would be like a Sunday that is blessing the rest of the week.
 And this will be something which is blessing the rest of our business or our work commitment.
 So it's like a higher value, higher mission that is incorporated into what we do in our
 profession.
 The big issue is that normally we think that we do some job or we work to get some gain
 or we run a business to make a profit.
 It's something for us, some kind of benefit for ourselves.
 But this has to be reversed.
 We have to reverse it.
 This is some kind of self-sacrifice.
 This is some kind of self-sacrifice.
 If we get paid for that, this is like a thank you that we hear from people.
 This is just a gratitude that is coming back to us.
 It's not something that has to come.
 We have to receive it.
 We demand it.
 We expect it.
 This is like an unexpected gift, like a blessing coming from God that we don't deserve.
 But God is still providing it to us and we can use it for something good.
 If we have a mindset like that, we won't be always troubled, always have this grudges
 why it's like that and why it's like that.
 And we will have peace of mind and we will have the blessing from God.
 What is very good in terms of labor?
 Why do we encourage everyone, all the faithful and all the people we always encourage to
 work?
 Not just to sit at home and just do whatever you want, unless you are already retired.
 But otherwise, this is not normal for somebody neither to work nor study, just to hang around.
 Why?
 Because working nurtures many important virtues, which are important not only for everyday
 life activities, but also for spiritual life.
 What virtues?
 One virtue is discipline.
 When we work, we become more disciplined.
 We wake up in the morning, we do this, we do that.
 We are more focused, more concentrated and this is the way for a healthy soul to be.
 It should not be always relaxed and just hanging around, having nothing to do, plenty of time
 to waste.
 This is the wrong state of mind, state of soul.
 We need to be disciplined, we need to be sober and ready to work.
 We have to have strong will to make important decisions, to change ourselves, to work on
 ourselves, which is very critical for spiritual life, for this progress to Christ.
 That way we can become soldiers of Christ and this is the goal.
 And to bring fruits, you see a farmer, his farm brings fruit only if he works, if he
 is active and he is doing something with that farm.
 Also by working we get together with other people, we find ways to cooperate, to build
 team spirit, which is also important for someone, for a Christian.
 Not just be myself, I do what I want and like that, atomization, this is not good.
 It makes your soul more noble because you work, you do things, you serve God.
 It makes us more humble because the boss would tell us this is wrong and you have mistakes
 like that and we are becoming more and more humble if we take it in the right way.
 If we take the lesson, because normally we think that we are fine and everything is fine
 and I know everything and I do everything right.
 And we don't see, we have many blind spots, we don't treat ourselves objectively.
 We have illusions about ourselves that we are good and this is called delusion.
 This is delusion in the spiritual life and our earthly life can help us develop that
 vision, self-criticism and always working on improvement.
 Also this nurtures responsibility.
 In our days people become less and less responsible.
 People don't want to have families because it's a responsibility.
 People don't want to have children, it's a responsibility.
 People say I will do that and that and then they forget, they have something else more
 interesting and then they forget about it.
 So all of that is because of lack of responsibility.
 And working, having clear tasks, having accountability makes us more responsible.
 It also can teach us self-sacrifice, sacrificing our time, our energy for the good of others,
 which I already mentioned, and also obedience.
 We become not just listening to ourselves, we need to listen to others, to our boss.
 We become more obedient, we become less egoistic, less self-centered.
 All of that things, all of those things are important for someone to become a good person
 and eventually a good Christian, but all of that we have to keep in mind that for us everything
 is Christ, that for us everything is done as our ministry to Christ.
 It's not done for us to benefit ourselves, to get comfortable life, to get financial
 freedom.
 For a Christian there is no financial freedom.
 We just have spiritual freedom and we rely on God.
 We trust that God will provide us with everything that we need and with wisdom that we need
 in order to do everything in the right way.
 To organize our earthly life and to serve Him and to gain the eternal life.
 I hope today's video was helpful.
 It can be useful.
 You can apply it into daily activities and it's important that we just change our whole
 understanding, our whole perception of the material goods and the reason why we work
 and our treatment of the money we have in our pocket.
 May God bless you, give you this wisdom and help us change this mindset and change our
 heart.
 God bless.
