 Dear friends, today we gonna talk about an important topic - the relationship between
 church and politics.
 We remember that the Lord in Matthew 22 21, he said that "Give to the Caesar what is
 Caesar's, and give to God what is God's".
 So there is a distinction between divine things and earthly things, and we should not mix
 the two together.
 The church is concerned about the Kingdom of Heaven and how to witness, to bring the
 testimony of the Kingdom of Heaven to people and to help them find the Kingdom of Heaven.
 This is the goal of the church.
 So, whenever you see some church leaders, priests, bishops, they get involved in some
 political rallies, in supporting some candidates, you must remember what we've talked about
 last time, that the biggest danger for a church, for the church and for any Christian organization
 is secularization.
 This is when the mindset of church people becomes similar to mindset of people outside
 the church, who are concerned with power, some earthly interests and something else.
 So, the church people, especially leaders who represent the church, they can get into
 this discussion because of some interests, because of some fears of losing something,
 and this tight involvement in these earthly matters becomes this stumbling stone for the
 church and the salt is losing its taste, it becomes saltless and becomes useless, so not
 salty.
 So, this is why we need to distinguish these things, and it is forbidden for a church man
 to promote some political party.
 It is forbidden in the church premises to do some kind of political promotion, any kind
 of political activities, and after the church service, when we gather together, when we
 just socialize and have tea or lunch, are faithful, it is forbidden to talk about politics
 while in the church outside, this is fine, people can do that, can do whatever they want.
 But in the church, no, because in the church we are all brothers and sisters and we are
 all united in Christ, and a Christian would be like that anywhere, even outside the church,
 he would avoid quarrels, especially with his brothers and sisters, on the political matters,
 because those divide people and make them hostile, sometimes make families divided,
 and we have to avoid this, and what we need to say, having said that, we need to remember
 that the church existed during all kinds of political systems, regimes, in the monarchies,
 in empires, in all kinds of kingdoms, in democratic system, in communist system, in fascist, even
 in the Nazi Germany, and we need to remember that any kind of political system can allow
 the church to carry on its mission.
 It may be difficult, in some situations may become very difficult, and there were some
 rulers who were against the church and persecuting the church, and some rulers who were supporting
 and providing all kinds of benefits and privileges to the church, helping the mission, helping
 the social ministry of the church, and the church is able to react to different policies.
 The policies which are beneficial for the church, the church can express its support
 to the policies and not to the politicians themselves.
 We need to avoid saying that this politician, this is a great one, and this is a lousy one.
 These judgments should be avoided.
 But the policies, we can give a reaction.
 And we also remember that sometimes when there was persecution of the church, and it seemed
 to be very negative, however, the church became stronger, and even though there were very
 few Christians at that time, because the mission was hampered, but their faith became much
 stronger, and they were able to survive in very difficult conditions.
 And this gave health to the church.
 But at the time of benefits to the church and the time of freedom, many people came
 to the church, and this was good.
 There were many opportunities for the mission, however, during these times very often Christians
 became more relaxed and not so eager to live what the Lord is teaching us.
 And the church became weaker, even though it became bigger and had more opportunities
 and more external resources, financial and all kinds of media resources, however, it
 became spiritually weaker, and sometimes even betraying Christ in the way the faithful and
 the clergy also lived, which became the stumbling for many people.
 So we need to know that, and we need to preserve that eagerness and that internal discipline
 and strength that we gain during those persecution times and have it and preserve it during the
 good and peaceful times so that we can get the most use of all those freedoms and resources
 that we gain in those times.
 So this is what is very important.
 Otherwise the Lord will allow the government to become very hostile and negative, and we
 will again have all those persecutions and tribulations.
 So let us keep that in mind.
 So having said that, we also need to mention that even though the church is divided from
 the government, the church is not divided from the people.
 And the church cares about the people.
 The church is people's church.
 It's not the church of a government, it's church of the people, and it's caring even
 more for those who are weak and deprived and those who need extra support and prayer.
 And this is why if the government is enacting some laws or is doing something which is harming
 the population and which becomes evidently negative and harmful, people are living in
 pain.
 There is a great social injustice, and there are wars and many criminals, and the law becomes
 worse and worse.
 The church can act and has to act as a conscience of the society.
 It has to say that this is wrong, this is not good, and the outcome is not good.
 It can avoid criticizing precisely some people, but it can say that the government is doing
 something wrong.
 It has to carry on this prophetic mission, prophets, they were bringing the message of
 God and they were telling the rulers about their wrongs.
 They were also telling the people about their lack of faith and other moral issues.
 So the church has to carry on that mission now and should not be afraid of criticizing
 the government for that.
 However, this is not political involvement.
 This is just objective testimony about those injustice, the injustice practices or policies
 phenomena which are resulting from wrong decisions, objectively wrong decisions of the government.
 So this is when the church can and must get involved.
 Also for the church leaders themselves and for any clergy, it is forbidden to get involved
 into administration, public administration.
 There is the law, the Holy Canon of the Apostles, number 81, which is forbidding any clergy
 to get involved in public administration.
 And if he does do that, he has to seize his ministry as a pastor, as a clergyman.
 So we also need to keep that in mind.
 He has to be fully involved in church matters.
 That has to become for him the most important task and goal.
 So these are the basic principles.
 And I hope that in our video blog, we don't raise those political questions and issues
 or national issues because the church is above all nations, is above all politics, and it
 is above this earthly matters.
 We are in the world, but we are not belonging to this world.
 We have to bring the message of Christ.
 And we need to have humbleness not to criticize people, to see every individual person much
 that he or she is much better than us because our sins are plenty, innumerable.
 But those that we see in someone, maybe one or two things, and we would perceive them
 as holy people on the individual level.
 And it's not just coming from our brain, this should come from our heart.
 And having that in mind, we also know about all the evil which is in this world and which
 was mentioned by Christ himself, that there are these carnal pleasures and this proudness
 and many other things and the Apostle Paul said that this world lies in evil.
 So we know that.
 And this is why we come out and we bring the message of Christ and we carry on the testimony
 of our love to him and to the people, to him through loving people.
 And we hope that other people would also be kindled by this fire of faith and that all
 of us can become ministers of Christ.
 May God bless you and give you such heart and give you the wisdom and keep you away
 from any harmful involvement in any political or other quarrel issue, wrong idea.
 God bless.
