 Dear friends, what does it mean to be a Christian?
 To be a Christian doesn't mean to believe in Christ.
 To be a Christian means to follow Christ, to have Christ live in our hearts.
 And who is Christ?
 Why a man named Jesus is called Christ?
 Christ comes from the Greek word Christos, which means "the one anointed".
 And in Hebrew it sounds Mashiach.
 Mashiach is the one who receives anointing, the anointed ones.
 And in English that becomes Messiah.
 So Messiah and Christ is the same, is the same word originally.
 And who was anointed?
 Why is Jesus called the anointed one?
 In the Old Testament times the three ministries had to come through anointment.
 Anointment by special oil, special mirror, it's called mirror.
 And the three ministries was the prophetic ministry, the prophets, then it were the kings,
 King Saul, King David, and later the priests.
 There was the anointment by priests, of the priests, especially the high priest.
 So for someone to receive this ministry from God, he had to be anointed.
 And Christ was the promised Messiah, the promised one who will come having received the anointment,
 the special mission by God.
 He will become the savior of the world.
 So he is not an anointed one, he is the anointed, the Christ, the Messiah.
 And there can be no other Christs or Messiahs.
 So Jesus, the name Jesus, meaning salvation, is the name of Christ, of Jesus Christ.
 But Christ is his title.
 We consider him to be Christ, to be the anointed one.
 And this is one of the reasons why in Hebrew, even until now, the word is not Christ.
 The word for Christians is "natsri", "natsrin", which just means the Nazarenes.
 So because the Jews at that time did not receive Jesus as Christ, in the Hebrew language, even
 until now, this name means this name is absent.
 This word is absent.
 It's replaced by the name "natsri".
 And there is nothing antisemitic about that.
 This is just linguistics.
 This is just what we have.
 We love Jews and our most beloved Jew is Christ himself.
 So we are followers of Christ and we are Christians.
 How is this related to this anointment?
 Well, Christ himself, he received all three in his anointment by God.
 He received all three ministries.
 He received the ministry of the prophet.
 He brought the message of God to the people.
 And he is the message of God.
 He receives the ministry as a king because he is the king of the universe, the king of
 kings, and he is the king of Israel.
 And the new Israel is the church.
 He is the king and the head of the church.
 So he is the king.
 And he is also the priest.
 He is bringing himself in the sacrifice.
 He is sacrificing himself for the redemption and for salvation of the humans, of those
 who will follow him, of the Christians.
 And he himself is both the priest and the sacrifice.
 He is bringing himself as a sacrifice.
 And he is the eternal priest.
 He is the priest who brings our prayers, who brings our souls.
 We offer our lives to him so that he can bring it to God the Father.
 And he will bring himself to us and make us partakers of his divine body and his blessed
 blood.
 So we become one with him.
 And what we also need to learn from this is that every Christian will participate in these
 three ministries.
 That every one of us has to become, in a certain sense, a prophet, a king, and a priest.
 This is why we are talking about the priesthood, the common priesthood, that everyone is a
 part of the priest.
 And practically meaning, this is realized during divine service, divine liturgy.
 Because the sacrifice which is completed during the liturgy is completed only by the church
 as a whole.
 It's not done by priest.
 Unlike in the Catholic theology, the mass is done by the priest.
 But in the Orthodox, authentic apostolic faith, it is the whole community, the whole church
 bringing this sacrifice and making this possible.
 A priest alone could not serve divine liturgy in the Orthodox Church.
 There has to be at least one faithful participating to represent the church and to make this sacrament
 happen.
 So let us remember this.
 And there are many things to discuss and to think about in which sense can we become prophets.
 We can become prophets by bringing the message of God.
 And by becoming the witnesses, the witnesses of Christ in this world.
 This is our prophetic mission.
 And we can become kings as those people who can create and are called to create church
 in this world.
 Be it our family, be it our own heart, be it the company or the organization where we
 work at, we need to work on establishing it as a kingdom of heaven.
 And in this sense, we are also, we can say small kings, local administrators.
 We participate in this kingship, in this mission of the Lord.
 The mission of establishing and nurturing the body of Christ incarnate in this world
 and being a small realization of the kingdom of heaven here in this world.
 If there are no people around us who can become part of this small church that we establish,
 we have to establish the kingdom of heaven in our hearts.
 And this is the condition for any other ministry that we do, that we work on our own heart
 and we squeeze out of it all kind of error, all kind of sin, all kind of passion and mortify
 our old man and become the God bearers and Christ cross bearers.
 We bear the cross of Christ.
 May Lord help us on this mission, on this path.
 May Lord help us in our spiritual life and give us His blessing and give us His love
 and His willingness to follow Him.
