 Dear brothers and sisters, today we are going to talk about 12 called disciples of Christ.
 Why is 12? What is the meaning of the number 12? We know that in the Old Testament there were 12
 tribes of Israel and each tribe descended from a patriarch. There were 12 patriarchs, 12 sons of
 Jacob or Israel and these 12 tribes they came and inherited the promised land and each tribe
 gained some part of this land and settled in this land and then the tribe of Levi did not inherit.
 They became priests. They did not have this property and every other tribe had to nurture them
 and this became the tribe of the priests. So this 12 meant this fullness, fullness of the
 people of God. However, during the Old Testament times many tribes were lost, mixed with other
 peoples. We remember it was the Assyrian invasion of the Israel kingdom, the northern kingdom
 and there were 10 tribes living there and later there was the Babylonian invasion of the Judea,
 the southern kingdom that had two tribes. Mainly it was Judah and Benjamin and also the priests,
 the Levites descendants of Levi. And eventually by the time of the coming of Christ only
 two and a half tribes or branches remained. It's the Benjamins, the Judas and part of Levi.
 But the rest nine and a half tribes were lost and mixed with other nations and even when people knew
 that they are Jews by this descent but they would not know what is their tribe. So even until now
 there is this issue and there are different theories about it. Some people say there are
 four tribes known, some people say five but in any case most of those tribes were mixed
 and were lost. So there was a promise that the Savior will come to the people of Israel
 and will restore these tribes of Israel. He will restore the people of Israel. He will give them
 the salvation. So the way he's done it, it wasn't this physical restoration of these tribes but
 instead he is establishing the new Israel. He is establishing the church which becomes the new
 people of God. And as the heads of these or patriarchs, the patriarchs of these new people
 of God become these two apostles, the 12 apostles. And from these 12 apostles the faith is brought to
 every other human being and we have the apostolic faith and we have the apostolic church which is
 coming from the apostles. So the fullness of faith is entrusted by Christ to the apostles and they
 bring it to us undamaged. So this becomes the main meaning of the number of the apostles. And in the
 gospel Christ is saying that he will give these 12 apostles the 12 throne 12 thrones in the
 heavenly Jerusalem to judge the 12 branches or 12 tribes of the Israel and to judge the whole world.
 Okay so he is giving them this fullness of power over his word and this fullness of power to judge
 to carry out the final judgment the trial over all people of earth. So this number 12.
 Why 12? We can also ask. Basically it happened to be the symbol of the power and authority of God.
 And also it is a symbol of the fullness of majesty or dominion or government we would say governing
 authority that the Lord is giving to the people to his people on earth. And the main aspect that
 they have is the truth and the word of God itself. So he is entrusting this mission to the old
 testament people to the old church the Israel and later when his its function is complete
 is entrusting this to the church to the church the new Israel. And eventually this number 12
 appears in the heavenly Jerusalem. We see that there are 12 thrones and there are also 12 gates
 into this castle into this kingdom of heavens. And all the people of God will enter through
 these 12 gates and this will be the fullness of completion. Also this number 12 is incorporated
 into the walls of this kingdom and also in the number of the people who are chosen and taken
 into this kingdom. It's 12 000 by 12. In the book of Revelation we read that all together it will be
 144 000 people. Of course this is not the exact number. This is the it's impossible if it's a
 vision to apostle John that he would count that it is exactly not 145 it's 144 000. No it's not
 it's not the exact number. This number is symbolical. It means that the fullness of people
 to be taken into the kingdom of heaven will be taken into the kingdom of heaven.
 So let us remember these things. We see this number in other places in the old testament.
 Aaron the high priest has this breastplate and he's got 12 precious stones
 affixed to this breastplate meaning that 12 branches 12 tribes of Israel
 will be served through him and he will establish the connection between them and God. And later
 also Jesus when he is giving the bread to he he is dividing the bread to be given to to 5 000 men
 and also children and women and children and he is breaking his five loaves and two fishes.
 Eventually the apostles will gather 12 baskets of the remaining pieces of food 12 baskets which also
 means this fullness that all the people will comprise the new Israel and they will be fed
 by the food of life which is the word of God. So let us think about this because the language of
 the bible brings a lot of symbolism. It has a lot of symbolic meanings and associations and the word
 12 appears very often. Some people counted it's 187 times appearing in the bible and about 22
 times in the book of revelation alone. So now let us think about it let us ask that the Lord include
 us into this number of the chosen and let us be faithful to him to be able to carry on this mission
 which he is entrusting to his church, I mean. God bless.
