 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say a few words about Antichrist.
 Of course we should talk about Christ mainly.
 This is our goal, this is our mission.
 Every Christian should share a word about Christ.
 However Christ himself he's told us about what will happen at the end of the world.
 And he warned his disciples about false prophets and false Christs that will come and that
 will deceive a lot of people.
 And he told us not to follow that and not to be misled by anyone who would come in his
 name and will be in his place instead of him.
 And we also remember the words of St. John the Theologian, Apostle John, who told us
 in his epistle that there are many Antichrists already and there will be the final Antichrist
 who will come.
 And Apostle Paul is talking about him also.
 So who are these fake Antichrists and who will be the final Antichrist?
 Let me say a few words about these things.
 And also we need to recall the words of St. Kirill of Jerusalem, one of the Holy Fathers,
 who said that you need to share the message about Antichrist with everybody as much as
 you can so that everyone can be warned about these things.
 So there is nothing wrong about it.
 This is not some conspiracy theory.
 We have no fear whatsoever about anything related to Antichrist.
 And we are hoping that the end of the world will come and the second coming of Christ
 will happen.
 And it will be allowed by God himself that the Antichrist comes.
 And in one of the readings, one of the texts of Holy Fathers, I even saw that Antichrist
 will be sent by God.
 Of course, it will not be that God is willing that Antichrist come, but God will allow this
 to happen.
 This will be the logical and the normal outcome of the world history.
 And what it is basically Antichrist, anti means, it has two meanings.
 Instead of Christ, in the place of Christ, instead of him and anti is against.
 So he will be both against Christ, he will be the enemy of Christ.
 There will be this antagonism between him and Christ, the message of Christ, the saints.
 And he will be instead of Christ, he will try to replace, he will be surrogate of Christ.
 And in the days of the apostles, in the early church, the emperors of Roman Empire, they
 were called Antichrists, Nero, Domitian, and many others, because they said that they will
 save the people.
 They provided bread to the needy and they asked people to worship them.
 There was this cult of emperor and the Christians were persecuted for not following this cult
 of emperor and not giving him this divine dignity, respect that he was supposed to have.
 And they were called Antichrists.
 So they can be said to be small Antichrists.
 And anyone who is coming and saying that I am the savior, I will solve all your problems,
 or who has a message like that, most politicians, they have this message.
 And he is later implying some divine functions that he has, this will be a small Antichrist.
 And we have now many examples, even in the 20th century, like Lenin and Hitler, dictators
 like that, there Lenin, he came and he said he will liberate the proletariat and all these
 enslaved masses exploited by these rich capitalists and whatnot.
 And he will bring this liberation, he will bring this salvation, and eventually this
 so-called bright communist future as a substitute of four heavens that it will bring welfare
 and wellbeing and all kinds of goods to the people and that will be the salvation.
 And this is a very clear image of Antichrist.
 Coming with seemingly good intentions and proposals, very brilliant, very smart, but
 eventually killing millions and tens of millions of people because they don't agree with the
 program or for some other ideological or theoretical reasons.
 So any small Antichrist would be something like that.
 We need to be aware of that.
 The final Antichrist, he will have those properties.
 He will also liberate the persecuted people and people in crisis or in slavery.
 He will bring some kind of salvation and hope and things like that.
 When he will come, he will be very nice and very polite and very immoral so that people
 really love him, really like him and people even begin to worship him.
 But later he will reveal his real face and he will persecute many people, especially
 he will be very cruel to the Christians, to those who don't receive his mark, the mark
 of the beast, this mark which he will put on everyone.
 Everybody will have to get it and it will allow you to buy and sell stuff and will allow
 you to enjoy the normal life, to buy tickets, to buy real estate, to have your children
 go to school, all of those basic things you will be able to do only if you receive this
 mark.
 So this willingness to have somebody like that is inherent into the fallen human nature.
 We see that the people of Israel, even the chosen ones, those who were the people of
 God, even they did not receive Christ because they were expecting another Messiah.
 They were expecting some other type of savior that will solve political problems, economic
 problems, social problems of Israel, will give it glory and it will give freedom, freedom
 from occupation, from slavery and he will be the perfect monarch, leader of the people
 of Israel.
 Even at that time we see this craving to get the Antichrist and this is the same until
 today in many religions.
 We have the same idea in Islam, in this Muslim teaching and we even have some new sects that
 some man or woman comes and says I am God, you worship me.
 We have sects like that and there is one sect even here in Taiwan which has got more than
 two million followers all over the world.
 Two million people believe that she is a woman is God.
 It is very easy to be tricked, especially when you have this kind of craving and at
 some point the world will be in chaos, the world will have all kinds of crises and pandemics
 and wars and all kinds of problems so everybody will be craving for somebody to come and save
 and solve all these problems and this person will come and the devil himself will act through
 this man.
 He will be so cruel, so treacherous that the devil himself will be acting through this
 man.
 He will be in this union with the devil so he will destroy everything which is related
 to Christ and to his church, there will be a war waged against him by the saints.
 At that time anyone who would sacrifice everything not to receive this mark.
 Those people will all become saints, they will be brave and they will be willing to
 do this sacrifice for their love to real God, to Christ, willing not to betray Christ until
 the end and they will lose in this war and they will become really marginalized.
 They will be maybe somewhere in the mountains and they will be against the law and the old
 technologies everything will be aimed at destroying these people.
 They will have real difficult life and it will be short.
 We need to know about these things, this will happen eventually.
 We don't know when but we know also that he will unite all religions.
 We now see that these boundaries between different religions are getting blurred and many people
 who call themselves Christians, they don't feel much difference and they say well it's
 as long as you're a good person and we can have pizza together, you're a nice guy and
 all this dogmatic and this doctrine, it's not so important.
 There is one God somewhere no matter what you think about it, how you worship, it all
 doesn't matter.
 This idea is now already quite common and eventually it will become that it will be
 just one world religion.
 They will be just immersed, pulled into this world religion.
 So the people who will still be loyal to true God, to Jesus Christ will become very very
 few.
 They will be very few and very marginal.
 So I don't think this will happen soon, very soon.
 We don't know when it's going to happen but now it seems that most people are not so much
 fooled yet, not that dumb to be misled by this.
 Majority of people are still quite aware of things like this.
 So we need to be very vigilant and very serious about our faith and not to be too much reliant
 on this material world and all the benefits which it brings to be able to sacrifice all
 this lifestyle, these goodies of this world for the sake of Christ.
 So let us know about this.
 Let us value Christ above everything else and let us be ready because Christ said you
 need to be ready all the time.
 You don't know when I will come, when these things will happen.
 And may God give us this faith, give us this eagerness to be with Him and courage to withstand
 all kinds of tribulations, all kinds of cheating because there are the words that the devil
 is trying to mislead even the chosen ones.
 For Him those who are not chosen, it's not a problem, they will follow Him.
 When this will happen they will comply but those who are chosen, those will be the main
 task for Him.
 How to trick them, how to mislead them, how to make them make this mistake and fall into
 this trap.
 May not this happen to any one of us.
 May God give you rich blessing and peace I mean.
