 Dear friends, now the Holy Church is celebrating the Feast of Transfiguration of our Lord.
 I hope everyone can learn more about this feast because we are not going to talk about it today.
 Today we are going to talk about an interesting topic that is related to this feast.
 This feast is related to the Old Testament celebration of the Sukkot or the tents.
 When the people of Israel exited, they went through the Red Sea and departed from Egypt,
 were released from the slavery. They came into the desert and they placed these tents.
 And it was complete unknown where to go and what to do, but now they were free. Now they were free
 and there was this celebration going on in these tents. And this physical liberation from the
 slavery of Pharaoh brought eventually to us the spiritual liberation that Christ has given to us.
 And the Transfiguration of the Lord is this goal of our Christian life is to receive this freedom
 and glory of God to every one of us. To receive the kingdom of heaven into our hearts which will
 make us free from all sins and from all other limitations. But how to do that? The Lord told us
 whoever will perish his soul will make it alive, will enliven it, will receive the true life.
 And this is what we receive when we reject ourselves. Today I want to talk about
 two things. Very often in our life we ask ourselves how we live. And the goal of the life
 becomes how do I live my daily life? What is my standard of living? Can I afford this? Can I not
 afford this? What is my salary? What is my properties that I can use? What food is out there
 to eat and to what kind of entertainment I can have? What is my next vacation? How will I spend
 my upcoming weekend? And the life becomes like that. And people are concerned about this. This
 is the economics are concerned about this the politics. Because now a good politician is the one
 who can bring good pensions, security, low level of crime, who can manage the life in the country
 so that it's stable and prosperous. So this is only related to how people live. And technology
 is also concerned. What is our capabilities in terms of technologies? What kind of cars or
 ships or spaceships we have? All those things are concerned with the quality of life and the way
 we live. And this is related to how we live. But God created man not like that. Not to be
 concerned just with those. He created a man to think about why does he live? What is the meaning
 of this life? What is the purpose of my life? This should become a question of every one of us
 and of the whole society. Because now there are no other values. We need a prosperous,
 wealthy country. Well this is not a goal. If this is a goal of the world to have prosperity and
 welfare, stable development, this world loses its meaning. This world has no meaning in the eyes of
 God. So this is why we need to think about these things every day when we live. What do I live for?
 What is the goal of my life? Because otherwise it will become like a fly. A fly finds a big cake or
 a jar with honey and it's tasty. It's what she really wants. And it's plenty for the lifetime.
 And for the whole family of this fly. But this is not what we are like. We are not like ants or
 flies or cockroaches who just need to have plenty and nice and sufficient and comfort. We are
 created as image of God and this is why we need to ask these questions. And we need to have this
 direction of our life. Where do we go and why do we live? Of course we need to be careful because
 some people who ask these questions they give wrong answers. And this is why we have all those
 ideologies and we have all these tyrannies, dictatorships and they exist by suppressing
 everyone who is against this. So when our goals in our life bring big pain and suffering and wrong
 to people around us there is something wrong with these values in these directions. So we need to
 find Christ and we need to learn how to follow him. And this has to become the meaning of our life.
 And this can happen only if we die for ourselves. Because now even when we go to some holy places,
 monasteries, we ask for what? We ask for help me in the situation, God help me to make right
 decision to sell a house, not to sell a house, immigrate or do what, protect me, give me strength,
 help me overcome some disease, give me peace and many other things. This is related to how do I
 live, how do I enjoy my life, is it nice and stable and comfortable. And this makes us slaves.
 This is what is preventing us from real spiritual freedom and spiritual life and makes our lives
 fruitless. So let us think about these things. We see that the youth now has
 no goals. The moral life becomes worse and worse. And the reason for that is that young people they
 don't see what's the direction, where do we go. So this is a post-structuralist, post-modernist,
 post-Christian age when there is no goals, no direction. And this is very dangerous.
 We remember that those righteous people in the time of Noah or Lot, everybody was eating,
 drinking, getting married, building houses, planting trees, but all of a sudden the flood comes
 and destroys everyone but one family. And the same with Lot. Everything was fine, the life,
 economy, everything ran well. And then Lot is exiting this town, this Sodom and Hamorah,
 and on that same day is destroyed by God. We see that it had no other meaning. Just because of one
 righteous family it still existed. So let us think about these things. Let us not hope,
 well not hope, not fool ourselves that okay everybody is serving God and everything is fine.
 We need to learn how to serve God ourselves. If we have this heart that loves Christ and
 has sacrificed ourselves, then we gain this spiritual freedom. And we gain it
 as somebody who is fired. A Christian should feel like he's fired. He's thrown away. He's
 thrown away and now he doesn't stick to this world. He doesn't grasp to this world. And even
 though it seems that that he lost something, he has gained great freedom in Christ. Let us
 have this heart and let us enjoy this freedom. Amen.
