 Dear brothers and sisters, our topic today is to be a liberal or a conservative.
 Who are we as Orthodox Christians?
 And we are going to talk not about the cultural things, not about some political or some social
 issues, we are going to talk about the faith, Christian teaching and morals and the principles
 of Christian life.
 And we remember the words of our Lord who said that "this world will pass, but my words
 will not pass".
 Because the words of God are absolute, this is absolute truth.
 And it is our task to know, to discover these words and their meaning.
 And to keep on to these words, not to betray Christ and to follow him with all our efforts.
 In the church we see some people are conservative, some are liberal, theologians.
 And conservative sounds like somebody is keeping to some old principles, some outdated things
 because they are sacred, because of time, because it's been around for many centuries
 and it has some value because of that.
 And not willing to change, not willing to adjust to reality and not willing to be reasonable
 about it.
 This is what is our impression of the word conservative.
 On the other hand, the liberal theology has a revolutionary spirit that says that what
 we have now can be destroyed because we need to respect the life as it is now, the needs
 and character of modern people and we need to get rid of some outdated stuff and we need
 to adjust to what we have now.
 And there is another liberal idea that we need to go back to how it used to be in the
 first century and we just physically copy whatever there used to be in the church in
 the first century.
 And we don't care about anything else.
 And such people they disregard pastoral needs, they disregard why certain changes took place
 in church practices, in the prayer.
 They don't care about this, they just want to break everything and for the sake of some
 idea to go back to some new practice.
 So they completely disregard past and present and they want, they are dreaming about something
 in future.
 And our position as Orthodox Christians should be much wiser.
 We on the Euthenia during Divine Liturgy we are asking God to preserve us, to preserve
 us.
 God is to preserve us all through.
 It's not to conserve us.
 To preserve, to guard, protect.
 So the purpose of us as Christians is to protect and preserve the truth that is in the church.
 This is our goal, not to conserve, to make it like a old biscuit or some antique thing
 and we just preserve it on shelf.
 No it's to conserve it, like to put it into some liquid so it's conserved, ok?
 No, our goal is to preserve and to use and to make it alive and bring fruit in our lives.
 To preserve the truth.
 And we need to be careful to know what is the truth because there are also different
 interpretations.
 And this is why we need to see what the Holy Fathers taught us and what has happened during
 the church history, what were the pastoral needs for introducing some practices, for
 example communion to be taken after confession and many other things.
 What were the reasons behind it and do we have these needs now?
 There might be, there can be a possibility for a reform of some church things but reform
 not for the sake of reform but for the sake of adjusting it to the teaching of the Holy
 Fathers and the truth.
 But unfortunately now many people in the church are willing to have a reform for the sake
 of reform and destroying, destroying the church completely.
 This is a very liberal idea and this is why some people instead of trying to have this
 rational reform they just keep to protectionist, they just keep what we have now, not to lose
 what we have and to lose everything in that process.
 So that might be a better solution in case we cannot do this reform in light of Holy
 Fathers.
 And we also remember that Christ himself he brought a revolution but this revolution was
 against what?
 It was against sin and darkness.
 He brought this revolution, so there should be also a revolutionary spirit in us but it
 should be to protect the truth and to make this truth alive.
 So this is our goal as Orthodox Christians and in this sense we can be fundamentalist,
 we can be considered fundamentalist because we have some fundamental truth that we are
 protecting and guarding.
 Of course we are not going to blow up anything for the sake of this but we have this fundamental
 truth that will not change and we are not going to give it up.
 Christ himself said that you will be my witnesses and you will be placed in front of kings and
 judges and some of you will be killed for my name's sake.
 So we need to be ready even to sacrifice our lives for the sake of truth.
 And this truth is in the words of God himself.
 And we should not be willing to adjust to this modern lifestyle or way of thinking that
 is the post-Christian, post-modernist values that are now becoming the mainstream because
 in the ancient times Christianity went against the mainstream.
 All the pagans and even Jews of that time were against Christianity and this is why
 there were such terrible prosecutions.
 And we need to be ready, to be persecuted, to be chased away, to be marginalized for
 the sake of the Lord and his words.
 So let us ask the Lord to give us his wisdom, his understanding to be always in the truth.
 Keep us in your truth.
 This is one of our prayers.
 And the Lord will give us his guidance and he will give us understanding of what to be
 preserved and what does not have to be preserved.
 What is absolute and what is relative.
 And may the Lord give us this blessing.
 And one more thing, of course very often the conservative people are closer to the truth
 than the liberal.
 People who are trying to preserve what we have happen to be closer because nowadays
 we very often don't have a spiritual understanding of many things, many reasonings behind certain
 teachings and traditions.
 And this is why when we begin to rely on our reasons and to be liberal, we are dragged
 far far away.
 But the people who are preserving what we have, even though they seem to be conservative
 and a little bit like retrograde, but they become closer to the truth than otherwise.
 Okay, may God give us this understanding and blessing and keep us in his truth.
 Amen.
