 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about a fundamental question. What are the
 keys to the kingdom of heaven? In Matthew 16 19 Jesus is telling to Apostle Peter that
 I will give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven and whatsoever you shall bind on earth
 shall be bound in heavens and whatsoever you shall lose on earth shall be loosed in heavens.
 These words are very mysterious and there have been a lot of thinkers and holy people
 who gave it a thought and gave a lot of discussion about this topic. We know what is a key. We
 need a key to enter a house, we need a key to open up some computer program, we need
 a password, we need a key to enter into the computer. There is this notion of a key because
 the kingdom of heaven is portrayed as a castle which has gates and to enter into this castle
 you need these keys. What are these keys and how to get them? We also remember the words
 of Christ that the path to the kingdom of heaven is very narrow and it's very difficult
 to walk and very few people find this path and follow it because some people they find
 it but they don't want to walk that path. But those people who are walking the white
 path are many, plenty and this path leads into destruction. How to find this path? Because
 the Lord says that on the judgment day many people will try, will want to enter the kingdom
 of heaven. Nobody wants to go to hell at that point but they will not be able to do that.
 So let us think deeply about this question and let us seek this path and have the will,
 the desire to walk this path. First of all we need to look at the Old Testament. In the
 Old Testament the priests they had the authority to make someone clean or unclean, to declare
 somebody as clean or unclean ritually. So somebody would touch a dead corpse or somebody
 would talk to pagans or would do some sins or even go to the market and you would need
 some ritual of clarification, being cleansed. Some minor things could be done by people
 themselves. They have these containers with water called mikvas and you would need to
 go inside and cleanse yourselves. But many serious things including some sicknesses like
 this leprosy and many other plague, those things had to be examined by a priest and
 the priest would say if this person is already clean he doesn't have the sickness, can go
 back to the society or this person is still unclean and has to be quarantined, has to
 be separated from the rest of the society. So that would be like a slavery. So the priests
 they had this sort of key, they had this right to give somebody freedom to go back to normal
 life. But this was just as a prophecy for the future, for the fullness that would come
 with Jesus Christ himself. And to understand what Christ is saying about the key to the
 kingdom of heaven, we first need to think about another thing. Holy Fathers, Saint Macarius
 the Great, he is telling us that the Word of God is a key, is a key to human heart.
 And this key opens up human heart and goes inside and makes the person change and bring
 fruit in faith. How come we have these doors in our hearts and these doors are locked?
 The Saint Father explains that when Adam and Eve they committed a sin, they disobeyed God.
 The devil through sin entered into the hearts of Adam and Eve and he has closed these gates
 of these hearts so that they became blind and they became separated and they would not
 receive many things that they would otherwise receive. This is what happened with Adam and
 Eve and this is what's happening with every one of us. When we sin, this sin enters into
 some gate of our heart and it's closing this gate and to live inside as a virus, as some
 kind of sickness and filthiness. So this is why our hearts become more and more selfish,
 more and more desiring things, all kinds of passions and vices are nurtured in our hearts
 and we don't care about other people's opinions, ideas. This is why we say, "Oh, adult, how
 can he change? He cannot change. He's already grown up." This is because normally by the
 time a person is grown up, he's done so many things, so many sins that he cannot change anymore.
 All his doors and windows and the small cracks of his soul are already closed from the inside.
 This sin has already sealed all those, all those paths to his heart and this is why so
 few friends after some age, it's difficult to become a friend with somebody because both
 people they have these hearts are already closed and it's difficult to find a key to
 someone else's heart. So this is the reality that we have and it is the Word of God that
 can still open this door, this sealed and closed door of our heart and go inside and
 clean it from inside and change us completely from inside. This is what we can have if we
 let the Word of God to bring fruit, to penetrate our heart and renew it, give it light and
 give it true life. So this is one thing. And for us to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven,
 we need not only to know the Word of God and to know how to walk in this direction, we
 also need to bring fruit. And the Holy Fathers are telling that it is the deeds that we do
 based on this knowledge, based on our knowledge of the will of God, his commandments. It is
 what we do that will become the key for us to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. And of
 course we do it with the help of God, it's not that we just do it ourselves. God will
 help us do it but we need to do it. So this will bring us into this Kingdom because this
 path it has to be walked, it's not an automatic thing. We need to walk through all these thorns
 and all these challenges that is putting in front of us all the obstacles. We need to
 overcome all of that and like that we enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. We also remember
 that the Lord gave these keys to Apostle Peter after his confession. The Peter, he said that
 you are the Son of God, the Messiah, the Christ of God. And the Lord said that it is God himself,
 my Father gave you this knowledge, understanding, not flesh and blood. And this confession that
 we recognize, acknowledge that our Lord Jesus Christ, he is the Savior, we cannot live without
 him. He is giving us everything, our life, our meaning of our life. And he is the Savior
 and he is the Son of God. And this faith, this confession is the key that can bring
 us into the Kingdom of Heaven. But other than that, we also know that the Church is entrusted,
 the keys to bind and to release. And this is the power that Christ himself has and he
 was the one who was able to release the sins, remember. And before he left he said that
 I will give you this power to release and to bind after my resurrection. After the resurrection
 he is giving this power to his disciples and he is giving them great power to bring people
 not to ritual cleanliness but to the eternal life in the Kingdom of Heaven. And he is giving
 this power to the Church and he is expanding this ministry to all the world. He himself
 has done this ministry in Jerusalem but he gives the Church the power and the authority
 to go to all the world and to bring all people into the Kingdom of Heaven. So this is done
 in the sacrament of confession. We cannot just forgive, just have me and God and that's
 it. We have the Church which has been established by Christ and we are saved in the Church.
 Not just individually but in the Church we are saved and we are united with God the Father
 in the mystical body of Jesus Christ. So let us remember about this. Let us live in repentance.
 Let us live in virtues. The deeds they give us access to the Christian virtues. By doing
 some virtuous thing we receive this virtue. We become strong in it. By giving somebody
 some donation we gain this virtue of charity, love, compassion for others. Sometimes we
 need to force ourselves to do something in order for our hearts to change. So let us
 live like this. Let us live without sin. The sin is binding us back. It's making us unfree
 and unable to go, to move forward. This is like a bondage that we go and we impose on
 ourselves. So this is why it's so important. It's not just that the Church is restricting
 some things. It's just telling you, you will bind yourself and you will be handicapped
 and you will harm yourself if you do this thing or if you have thoughts like that and
 all other things like that. The Lord is willing for us to be righteous, to live in truth,
 to walk on the waters of faith, not receiving any kind of sin, any kind of passion to approach
 us or to have it bounce back right away. So let the Lord give us this heart, give us this
 courage and let us enter into the splendor of His glory, I mean.
