 Dear brothers and sisters, today we are going to talk about what does it mean to be a Jew
 and what is the term "Jewish" really means.
 We will arrive at a surprising conclusion that a real Christian is really a real Jew.
 Let's first talk about the roots, the origins of this word.
 It comes from the Hebrew word Yehudi or Yehudim in plural, which means "to glorify God" or
 someone who glorifies God.
 The people Jews are coming from Judah, Judah in Hebrew is Yehuda, Yehuda is also the meaning
 is "to glorify God" or someone who glorifies God.
 He is one of the Yehudim, Judah was one of the twelve patriarchs, sons of Jacob, and
 from them the twelve tribes of Israel come.
 One of the biggest tribes is the tribe of Judah, which settled in the southern part
 of Palestine, of the Holy Land, and this southern kingdom was called Judea, also after this
 name Judah, while the northern kingdom was called the kingdom of Israel, and it was conquered
 later by the Assyrian empire, and mixed with pagans, and basically it was lost.
 And the southern kingdom was conquered later by Babylon, and it's mainly from the time
 of the Babylon exile that the people who maintained the religion, the Old Testament faith, they
 call themselves Jewish, those who are from Judea.
 And later, everyone, no matter which tribe you're in, within this Old Testament faith,
 if you believe, if you belong to this faith, you will be considered Jewish.
 So first and foremost, this is a religious concept, not ethnical, and it is related to
 this faith.
 And also we read in the prophets and in Old Testament literature that to be Jewish means
 to be against all kinds of paganism, not to receive anything pagan, and to believe only
 in one God, and to preserve his commandments and follow him.
 So this is the significance of this title, title "Jewish".
 And we read in the pistol to Romans of Saint-Apostle Paul, he is saying in chapter 2, 18, he is
 saying that you are called to be real Jews, and a real Jew is not someone who is externally
 so in the outside, and the real circumcision is not which is done externally, but rather
 it is what is inside that makes you a Jew and makes you circumcised in your heart.
 So what does it mean?
 It means that someone who is circumcised in the Old Testament times, it was someone who
 is dedicated to God.
 He has this mark on his body that he has sacrificed and he is obedient to God, he is cutting his
 own will in order to submit to God's will.
 And this became very important and the Apostle Paul and the early church fathers tell us
 that the external laws, all Old Testament commandments, and also the rituals that existed,
 these purification rituals and all kinds of other meal rituals, clothing rituals, all
 kinds of rituals and stuff, all of them, all of those were in order to facilitate the inside.
 What is inside someone's heart?
 Like a uniform.
 If you're a firefighter, you put on a uniform, you feel that you have this responsibility.
 Or if you're a soldier, you've got this uniform, not that you just enjoy the feel of it, but
 that you are reminded of your responsibility and it influences your internal will and decisions
 you make.
 So in the same way, all of the external laws and regulations and all kinds of traditions,
 they were for the purpose of bringing the people to the internal understanding of their
 responsibility and their covenant with God of Israel.
 So once this was lost, the problem came.
 This is why Christ is often telling them that outside you're so nice and you have all those
 clothes, but inside you're like the tombs, which are full with all kinds of filthiness
 and all kinds of bad smell.
 Outside they are very nice on these monuments, but inside it's very different.
 So he is arguing with them about this and Apostle Paul is saying that it is not worthy
 to boast with something external, to say, well, you see, I'm a descendant of Abraham
 or Moses, or I'm circumcised or I'm whatnot.
 It is important to boast about Christ and about your faith.
 And your faith is what is inside you.
 It is not a certificate that you are baptized or that you have a cross on yourself, or if
 you're a priest, that you have the priest's cloth.
 For God, this is nothing, okay?
 Because God looks inside who you are and what you have in your heart.
 And to be circumcised means to have all kinds of sin and dirt and all kinds of evil thoughts
 thrown away from your heart.
 You're keeping yourself clean for God to guide you and to live inside you.
 And this is the real circumcision.
 And to have the heart like this means to be real Jew.
 This is what Apostle Paul is telling us.
 So we will need to remember this.
 And also, there was a very interesting story that one priest told me that why he himself
 considers himself a Jew.
 He says that every time I partake of the Holy Communion, I receive into myself the blood
 and body of Jew, of Jesus Christ, who was Jew also ethnically, okay?
 And he says that's why his blood is flowing in my veins and I'm Jew as well.
 Well, this argumentation is interesting, but it's just the point of one priest.
 For us, the most important, of course, is not any ethnical thing.
 For us, the most important is to have Christ living inside us.
 And that would make us real Jewish people.
 We will not discuss today the modern Judaism religion and the ethnical issues.
 We respect all ethnical issues, but we are talking about the deeper meaning, the meaning
 that giving that the gospel and the Bible, the Old Testament are giving to us and the
 Holy Fathers of what does it mean to be Jewish and to be really a Jew and to be called someone
 who glorifies God.
 Yehudi is someone who gives glory to God himself.
 May Christ give us this heart, help us overcome all kinds of temptations and misunderstandings
 and may the blessing of our Lord be with every one of you.
