 Dear brothers and sisters, one of the purposes of our videos is to teach us Christian wisdom
 that can be used in daily life.
 What does it mean to live a Christian life and to follow Christ?
 And the Holy Fathers give us many important clues and practical advices on how to follow
 Christ, how to live a Christian life.
 Today we are going to talk about what time is the most important time in our life, and
 what person is the most important person, and what thing, what matter, what business
 is the most important matter in our life.
 And the time is now, the Holy Fathers tell us that it is this present moment that is
 the most important.
 We remember Christ himself in Matthew 6.34.
 He told us that you don't care about tomorrow, tomorrow will care about itself, but you care
 about today as it's enough for today, it's evil for today.
 So today is much more important than yesterday and then tomorrow, and it is, and in today's
 time the most important time is now.
 So the big problem that people have is to live in the past.
 We went somewhere, some vacation, and there are some memories, we share them, and we sort
 of live in that past time.
 This is one of the mistakes, and the older people become, the more they live in past.
 And another mistake which is common among young people is to live in future.
 In future we will reach some goals, we will have more money, we will have more opportunities,
 we will have a house, we will have a family, we will have children grow up, and this and
 that, and we live in the past, we care about what will happen later.
 And now we just want to sort of go through this, it's tough time and we need to pay mortgage
 and we need to do this, and it's not pleasant everyday work or stuff, and it is not so important.
 The most important is the goal that we will eventually reach when we go through this.
 This is a common mistake, because it is now that it's much more important.
 Now decides all your life, what you think now, what is your direction, what is your
 attitude towards God, towards life, is now.
 What choices you make right now that can influence your whole life.
 So this is why now is important, and we remember Lord's words that "Be vigilant, don't sleep".
 Being vigilant meaning that every moment you are ready for everything, you are ready to
 make decisions, to choose to make choices, you are ready right now, you are not asleep
 spiritually.
 This is what's very important.
 And another big problem that we have nowadays is to live in some virtual world, and we are
 outside time, we are in some game, or in some social media, or in some movies, or somewhere
 else, we are in this virtual thing.
 If we go and see people on the street, in subways, we'll see everybody is doing something.
 Most of the time this is it, this is the virtual life the person is in, and he doesn't care
 about now and future and past, nothing, he is there, or she is there.
 This is what's dangerous, because it's outside of this real world and real responsibilities
 and real decisions that God is willing us to make and to do, things that he wants us
 to do.
 And we are separated from that, and we are separated from God.
 And this is what the Lord is saying, that you leave these dead people to bear their
 dead.
 If a person is separated from the real life, he cannot be spiritually alive.
 This is a big issue, a big problem.
 Even before virtual reality this became a problem, but now it's getting worse.
 So what is the most important person, who is the most important person in our life?
 And the Holy Fathers tell us that it is the person who is in front of you or by your side.
 This is the person whom you are dealing with now or talking with now.
 And he or she is the most important person in your whole life.
 This you have to know, it's not just someone.
 And especially if this person cannot repay or do anything in return, if you're helping
 him or her, and she cannot repay in any way, you're just doing it because you're a Christian.
 That's even much more important than anything else and anyone else.
 Why?
 Because Christ is sad, that who served one of these little ones, he served me.
 Okay, remember, that will be the decisive decision on the Last Judgment, okay?
 And through people we can serve Christ, especially when they cannot do anything in return, they
 cannot repay us.
 And at that point they become, they are receiving our ministry to Christ.
 And this goes directly into the deposit in heaven, okay?
 And this is the goal of our life, to assemble, to accumulate treasures in the heavens, okay?
 And right now we're just depositing, depositing, okay?
 We're doing something for someone without any condition, without any benefit to expect.
 We're just depositing, okay, cash into the kingdom of heaven, okay?
 This is what we're doing.
 So this is the most meaningful time and person in our life, okay?
 And in case nobody's in front of us, we're alone, okay?
 Then the most, what is important is to be with Christ, okay?
 We could either work or we have rest, okay, when we are alone.
 And no matter what we do, whether we work or we have rest, we're not doing something
 very important.
 We are with Christ and what we do has to be a dialogue with Christ, okay?
 If we work, then we need to remember that Christ is near us and he's helping us, supporting
 us, he's watching us, okay?
 And what we do is our ministry to him, okay?
 Not our, okay, just to finish it and have it done.
 No, this is what we do for God and we do it as good as we can, okay?
 And if we're having rest, of course, we need to use it as a spiritual, as an opportunity
 for a spiritual life.
 We remember that God is with us and he's always watching us and listening to us and
 he's waiting for us to talk to him, okay?
 And to whatever we do, we need to be in this dialogue with Christ.
 And this is super important.
 We see how many people are living in depression, they are alone because no friends, and if
 we have this loneliness at some point, okay, the only way out of it is to seek Christ.
 We need to know that we don't have him yet, okay, if we feel alone.
 We left our friend or a relative, abandoned us, and we feel like, okay, I'm lonely and
 I don't know how to do it, I'm depressed.
 This is the time to say, "Hey, okay, I need God.
 I need to find him somehow."
 And we just knock everywhere.
 We just seek for him until we find this relief that we found him, okay?
 So this is what is very important.
 We also see that in this virtual life that now is so common.
 People come back, okay, they finish gaming, and okay, they don't want anything, they don't
 like anything, they're unhappy, they have bad mood.
 Why?
 Because they don't have God.
 When they were getting this surrogate of happiness by flying somewhere or, I don't know, killing
 somebody in those games or whatnot, they were without God.
 And now they come back in the real life and of course they don't have God, because they
 don't want him and they love something else.
 So this is when we see how dangerous, how terrible, spiritually harmful is to live in
 that virtual reality, okay?
 And the last is what thing or what matter, what business is the most important.
 And the most important matter is the one that we have with this person, okay?
 We're dealing with this person and the matter that we're discussing or that we're doing
 together is the most important in our life, okay?
 We need to do this as much as we can and it will decide many things for us spiritually
 and give us opportunities in the internal to gain something in the eternal life.
 So this is very important.
 Even if it's something that doesn't seem to be so important, okay, maybe it's not okay,
 we're not creating something big, but we need to take care of it as though this is the most
 important thing in our life, because this is our ministry to Christ.
 Maybe we're just swiping the floor, okay, maybe it's something as trivial as that.
 But for us now, this is the most important.
 We don't have, okay, quickly, I have something else to do, okay?
 No, we have to do it as good as we can and this is important for us now, okay?
 And of course, we also know that very often we don't want to deal with something and we
 say sorry, I have no time, I have no time.
 Or let's leave it for later, for tomorrow, for later.
 This means that we really don't want this in our life at all, okay?
 It's not important, because in our conscience, human being, we are created like that, that
 for us now is supposed to be the most important time.
 We're just all mixed up, okay?
 But our nature tells us that this is it.
 So this is why I say later, later, this is when we don't want it, okay?
 Because what is now is important for us, okay?
 Even if we don't understand it, okay?
 So let us keep that in mind and let us grow in Christ.
 He wants us to be with him, he wants us to grow, to have more wisdom, to spend our life,
 every moment of our life to the fullest, okay?
 To get as much as we can for Christ.
 To get stronger spiritually, to walk this path following him and to have his blessing
 for with us on every day.
 And may the blessing of God be with you and his wisdom, his spirit be with you always,
 amen.
