 Dear friends, today we are going to talk about how this created world is the book of revelation of the Lord.
 We need to change our basic conception and perception of this created world.
 First of all, let us begin from the words of St. Apostle Paul in his epistle to the Romans.
 Romans 1, chapter 1, verse 20.
 "For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen,
 being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead."
 So that they are without excuse, the Gentiles.
 So we can see that from this created world we can see the mighty power of God and we can see the Godhead.
 And basically this is the revelation and the image of the divine kingdom,
 of the kingdom of heavens that we are so much craving for and seeking.
 But we treat it as just stuff.
 There are two main misconceptions about this world.
 The first misconception is the modernist, the scientific world view, that this is just matter, just material stuff.
 So we can use it in any way that we please, just not to harm ourselves too much, but this is just stuff.
 It doesn't have... This comes from scholasticism, dividing things, putting them in separate categories.
 And we consider this as a great downfall of theology.
 So this is where it comes from.
 This is just stuff, it's not spiritual, it's just matter, it's material.
 So we just use it.
 And to support this there was this use of Bible also, but this is misuse, what we say.
 That man has to govern this earth.
 It is true.
 Man has to govern this earth and this is based on Genesis and we will read it in a moment.
 But this means that God wants man to be like God for this world.
 And what does it mean?
 That means that we are supposed to love this world as something entrusted to us and as the house that God provides to us in which we live and in which we learn what the kingdom of heaven is like.
 It is called epiphanic.
 Epiphanic means revealing.
 It's revealing to us this mystery of the kingdom of heaven.
 If we approach it with the right attitude.
 Okay, first let us read the Genesis and that is Genesis chapter 128.
 And God blessed them and God said unto them to Adam and Eve be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth.
 Okay, so this is this world is entrusted to us.
 Okay, the Lord gave us a special role to care and to manage this created world.
 Okay, but for us to have the right management principles.
 Okay, we need to know what it is and where we are.
 Okay, and what it is is the temple of God.
 Okay, and this is how we treat it.
 This is creation and we're part of it.
 Okay, so this is one mistake which is very common and this is normally how we treat this world as just stuff.
 Okay, rocks and lumber. Okay, and just stuff. Okay, this is wrong concept.
 Another concept that we have is this ecological and this is naturalist.
 Okay, and this comes from this organic stuff and okay that these creatures they are so precious.
 And this is fake. Okay, this whole ideology is fake.
 Because why? Because it puts humans as also stuff.
 Okay, that humans are like ants and they are evil ants because they destroy this earth.
 So this value of these natural things is absolute and this is a sort of Buddhist concept.
 Okay, that man is almost like garbage. Okay, it's just a bunch of bacteria put together.
 Okay, and this is a very anti-Christian world view.
 Okay, that humans is nothing. It's just harmful for this environment.
 Okay, this is a reaction against this modern and this becomes like postmodern or this naturalist.
 And this is why it likes all those yoga stuff and all that so-called this Asian, this Taoism
 and this naturalistic world view. All of that stuff comes from this wrong understanding of
 what the role of man is and what God has asked him to do with this world in this world.
 Okay, so what is the right understanding, right conception? The right understanding
 that is coming from the Lord himself is that we learn this world, this creative world is the school
 for us to learn about divine majesty, divine wisdom and to appreciate what the kingdom of heaven is
 and walk towards this kingdom of heaven. Okay, and to manage of course this universe.
 Okay, and to rely on it, on its resources, on its forces, to have planes for example.
 But this relying is not just usage. For example, in a family we have relatives and we help each
 other. Okay, or let's say it's a kingdom. Okay, and the king, if it's a good king, he treats
 his helpers as his family. Okay, and he can rely on that but it's not he's using them. Okay,
 and this is how we can rely on this nature. Okay, not just use it. Okay, just get some benefit,
 extract some benefit for some enjoyment and better not to do anything. Okay, and just to have it serve
 us. Okay, this is the egoistic and selfish and ghettoistic. Okay, ghettoistic pleasure and
 enjoyment becomes the purpose. Okay, and this was all distorted human heart and distorted human
 mind and this is why we go to the nation we don't feel any anything good. Okay, if we're we have
 that perception but this is another big problem. We need to see that modern civilization. Okay,
 modern people now we have almost no peasants. We have almost no people living in these rural areas.
 Okay, almost everybody is in the cities. Okay, this came with the urbanization and then we have
 also the industrialization. Okay, there's plants, production, machinery. Okay, and we didn't really
 care about this nature and appreciating it. Okay, this is why modern art became so so ugly. Okay,
 because we lost this contact. Okay, and now we have the internet. Okay, the internet generation
 that's always in the internet, in the computer, in social media, in games, you know, and the new
 era of virtual reality is coming. Okay, well people will completely be grasped into some
 fantastic world which is completely cut off from reality. Okay, this will be next step of
 getting further and further away from this nature and appreciating it as the creation of God.
 So, all of that we need to not go in line with all that thing. Okay, with all that development.
 We need to find time to get outside, not just for barbecue. Okay, but to appreciate the nature.
 Maybe to write a painting. Maybe we can discover this talent in us. Or maybe you go do something.
 Okay, fishing or wood cutting. Okay, work in the nature, get a feeling of being together. Not just
 sit all the day in this armchair and say I'm so busy, I'm so busy. Okay, we need to
 change and we need to know that we can find God there. Not only in the church, not only in front
 of the cross in our room in front of icons, which is important and this is very good,
 but real spirituality, real power that we can get from God, inspiration. And the revelation,
 many things wise and important we can appreciate and we can understand by being in touch with
 nature. Okay, but don't have this wrong naturalistic idea. Okay, we need to know that
 things is our home. This is what God created for us. We appreciate his might, his generosity,
 how many stars. Okay, it's just how he creates without himself. Okay, just as many as you need
 I give you. It just creates all that vast variety of different galaxies and this is also what we can
 learn from direct contact. Okay, so we need to see it's not just object and I'm subject,
 I'm looking at it, it's matter. No, this is the place where I get connected with God. Okay,
 where I can get in dialogue with him. So let us use this, let us be mindful of this world and
 let us have not this mechanistic view and not this ecologistic, ecologism view
 that nature is more important than people and all that stuff, but rather this very balanced
 and very biblical view that comes from the holy apostles and holy prophets who tell us who we are
 and what is this all about. And may God give us this heart, give us this ability to appreciate
 this world, to open this book. You need to open, our eyes are blinded. Okay, it has to open and
 our internal eyes are blinded. It has to be also opened for us to be able to see God behind this
 and through this. Okay, not in this, not this is God like pagans. Okay, no, but this is like icon
 of God. Okay, this is like the image, but behind this image, we can see God himself and we are
 part of all this universe and we are entrusted special goal in this world by God and he is
 expecting many things from every one of us. May God give us this inspiration, give us this time
 to do it. Okay, but try to find time. Okay, now, especially before winter, before it gets cold,
 this was very good opportunity to get somewhere and after this, okay, people sitting in their
 houses because of this coronavirus. Now, okay, we have this ability, we need to find ways to go
 on such trips with our families and get closer to God. I mean, God bless.
