 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about mysticism.
 The early church had a very profound feeling that the Kingdom of Heaven has arrived and that they are citizens of this Kingdom of Heaven.
 And this new reality gives them new understanding of this world, of relationship between people, of attitude towards property, wealth, other material values.
 It gave them a very profound feeling that they are in a foreign world, that this empire, this society is something external to them, which lives exactly as it used to live.
 It has the same issues and problems as before, but their vision and their goals became completely different.
 So they have this secret citizenship, this secret passport hidden somewhere that gave them new life, new direction, that gave them power and joy that nobody else had.
 And because they were very few, they've used some secret symbols to communicate, to pass on some information.
 Today I brought one very old ancient stamp, this is about 4th century. This stamp I can show you closer. This stamp is the bread stamp for the Prosephora, for the ancient breads that they used for the Holy Communion that would become the body and blood of Jesus Christ.
 So this bread stamp has an inscription in Greek, which says "Is Theos" - one God, one and only.
 And this symbol here, you can see, this symbol is Staurogram, it's the Greek letters Rho and Tau.
 And these two letters are the two letters representing Christ. Staurogram is R T Christ, we see there are letters R and T, which are the same as the Greek ones.
 And superimposed, one and another, they make a cross with a hat. And that was actually the earliest shape of the cross, of the Christian cross.
 So this sign would be not comprehendable to other people, only to those who are in this secret group of revolutionaries.
 They had those secret societies. The whole Christian church was at that time this small secret society, and they felt that this truth by which they lived is the real thing.
 And the external world became like transparent. So they are still in this world, and they have a mission in this world.
 But this external world is transparent, it's not absolute, it's not as important as the real reality, which is the Kingdom of Heaven, which has already arrived, and which they live in and live by.
 And it's realized in their hearts.
 And it is later, when the majority of the population became Christians, that this notion was lost. And people, Christians, thought, well, basically, we own this land, and we have this Christian country and Christian village, and we are here, and our world is here.
 We live in Christ, yes, but we are not outside of this society, we're not like guests in this world.
 But it is very important to have that notion, that Christians, from the beginning, they knew that here they are just guests. Nothing really belongs to them, nor properties, nor something else, titles, they are from above. They belong to another kingdom.
 And this notion is very important for everyone else. We need to restore, recover this real notion of who we are, and what we do, and where we go.
 So this is why this mysticism from this perspective is so important in the Christian life.
 And also we know that when we meet somebody, and we are, say, children, we have a lot of sympathy with a new person. We think it's like a mystery.
 And if we love somebody, we also very often expect what he will say, or she. And we have that feeling as though this person is a mystery. But after we live in this sinful life, and we become very cynical, and we have a lot of concepts, ideas that people from this country are like that,
 and teachers are like that, policemen are like that, we have answers about everyone and everything. And we become very proud and very blind. This is the outcome of sin.
 We need to recover in ourselves this ability to feel that there is a mystery behind everything, and especially behind divine things in the church.
 Because now we think, oh, well, I know everything in the church, and what Bible says, I know everything, and what the priest will tell me, I know everything. This is the biggest mistake and biggest error that we can make.
 We don't know anything. We remember St. Paul said, who thinks that he knows something does not really know anything in the way it should be known.
 And we need to be humble, and we need to preserve this willingness to learn and to embrace even more things, more knowledge, especially about divine things.
 We need to open our internal eyes. So what is the difference between Christian mysticism and occult mystics?
 Like the ones who are talking about opening third eye and four-dimensional space and time and some mystical things, that when you possess, when you get some formula, you can get some powers and some super knowledge from Shangri-La or from Tibet or from somewhere else.
 That's the hibicalek, the super powerful and wise sage.
 All that, I hear you say nonsense, but it's pretty much has very little value.
 And all that mysticism and all this wizardry and this magic stuff, all of that is against God's will, this astrology thing.
 This all comes from this Kabbalah, Kabbalistic understanding, that there is some special things that you grasp and you control all the world and the movement.
 All of that is very proud, very selfish and very stupid ideas.
 Because Christ, he wants to give fullness of knowledge and salvation to every single person.
 And we don't seek that because we don't have this talent. And we need to ask God to give us this talent, to give us this talent of faith and search for truth.
 And he will give it to us, to every one of us he can give it. He's willing to give it to us, but we don't ask and we don't seek.
 So we have this salvation open to everyone. It's not just some chosen ones and just some people who have some special powers and things.
 We can become chosen ones of God, but God will give us such a blessing if we search for that and ask.
 And he's willing that everyone becomes like that, that everyone is chosen. He's calling everyone for that.
 Many are called and few are chosen. They are chosen not because the Lord disregards others.
 Because others don't want to hear this calling.
 So let us know what is true mysticism.
 There is another wrong type of mysticism which is this mystics who saw some visions in the middle ages that was popular. And that mysticism, basically it has a big risk that people, they would have some fantasies.
 Or even something coming from evil spirits. And they will think that this is the most important thing.
 And they won't care about this world and what is happening in this world.
 They will say that this material is completely nothing. We need to see where this edge is.
 We are not saved from this world to get away from this world. We are saved so the whole world can be saved.
 We need to minister this world and God cares about this world and he sends us to this world.
 But when somebody just has this exaltic separation going somewhere in some worlds, that is very unhealthy and that can bring someone into proudness, into some mental disorder.
 And that is very wrong spirituality.
 We need to have the healthy spirituality coming from the Lord himself, from God himself.
 Reducing and getting rid of anything else. Not including any fantasies, any things like that.
 Only searching for answers from God himself and testing them through life and through prayer.
 And we know that the priorities are that what belongs to the kingdom of heaven is of utmost priority.
 And this is what is guiding us in our daily life. This is what is giving us strength, giving us direction and we need to live like that.
 This is healthy Christian mysticism and penetration into these mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but without some wrong ideas and some mistakes.
 May God help us. This was just introduction, but I hope that it can be helpful to everyone. God bless.
