 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say a few words about a very important topic.
 What is faith?
 Because there are many different misconceptions, ok?
 I'm talking about faith in Christ, faith in God.
 Sometimes we think that faith is belief and this is wrong, ok?
 Like belief in something, in aliens or in some fourth dimension space.
 Another misconception is faith is a feeling, it's a religious feeling.
 We feel some peace, some consolation in the church, a psychological thing.
 This is also wrong.
 Another misconception is that faith is a system of some rituals, ok?
 That we have candles and something else, crosses, put cross when we pray.
 This is also not faith, ok?
 So what is faith?
 What is faith?
 And this will help us change, in many ways change our life in Christ, ok?
 In the Gospel of John 14-12 we read, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believes on
 me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall he do,
 because I go unto my Father."
 In the original here it's "who has faith in me", it's not "who believes in me", "who has
 faith in me".
 Ok, so, the one who has faith in Christ, he will do the works of Christ.
 If we don't do them, we don't have faith in him, ok?
 So there is this misconception that I believe, yes, Christ is Savior, is my personal Savior
 and he is Messiah, and that's it, I am saved, I am justified, hallelujah, ok?
 So, if we believe in Christ, that he is, ok, God, Savior, in the same way as we believe
 that, say, Einstein is the greatest scientist in the world, or we believe that there are
 parallel universes, or we believe that there are aliens or something, ok, this doesn't
 change our life, unless we are obsessed by this idea, ok?
 But for most people it doesn't change your life, the way you treat people, the way you
 make choices, the way you have your internal world, ok, your values, it doesn't change
 it at all, ok?
 So if this is like that, our faith is nothing, ok?
 It's like a book that you have, ok, you put it on the shelf, and you never read it, ok,
 but you have it, ok, but it's on your shelf, and it doesn't change your life at all, ok?
 So, in the same sense, if we just believe Christ, and ok, then we live as though he
 is not saying anything, he is not changing us in any way, then this faith is nothing,
 ok, this is absolutely nothing, we have, we are pagans in the same way as people who don't
 believe in Christ, believe in many other things, ok?
 So this is one big misconception.
 Another important misconception is that faith is the religious feeling, ok, I feel some
 tranquility in the church, ok, I have some good, nice feelings, and I'm more kind, and
 I have this feeling of mercy in my heart, and things like that, ok, this is not faith,
 you think yes, this is my, no, it's not, and actually it replaces real faith, and this
 makes us a completely different, completely opposite from what we should be, ok, how does
 that happen?
 When we come to church, and we have that feeling, ok, I want to have that feeling with God,
 we are annoyed by other people making noise, we don't want to have too many people in the
 church, and you know, this is our individual thing, this is very selfish, ok, because,
 and this is against the nature of the church, because the church's people are called to
 come together to glorify God and to live their faith by sacrificing themselves for others,
 for having love among each other, and true spirit of care and self-sacrifice and ministry
 to other people, and if we come and we have exact opposite, ok, then there is something
 wrong about it, well this is a very big risk, because this is a surrogate, this is fake,
 this is not real faith, ok, so let us be aware of that, and also religious feeling makes
 us unwilling to learn more about our faith, because we are afraid I learn more, maybe
 I lose this feeling, ok, I have this very sincere, very authentic feeling, but then
 maybe I lose, I have some thoughts, ok, we are afraid, we are becoming like that, and
 we want to be ignorant of our faith, for what it really brings to us, so this also proves
 that this is a wrong thing, another phenomenon that we see that when we have that kind of
 faith we don't want to share it with others, we want to preserve it for ourselves, I have
 it, it's so nice, but the faith that Christ gives us makes us willing to share it with
 everyone, and willing to kindle, to spread this fire, to make more people excited and
 moved by this faith, because this is God himself, he gives us new life, new salvation, we want
 to share this new life with everyone, so we can see again that this is a very wrong idea
 about this religious feeling, which is selfish and very closed upon itself, so another misconception
 is that faith is about ritual, ok, we come, we put candles, we do crosses, we do this
 and that, and this is what makes me an orthodox Christian, but it's not, ok, this also can
 replace faith, it's not supposed to, it's supposed to strengthen our faith, make it
 more concrete, make it more real, but sometimes people just stick to this form and don't go
 into the substance, don't go into the real meaning, and this is also a very big risk,
 so all external rituals and what we do in the church, all of that has to help us grow
 in faith, but it's not faith itself, so all these things we can see, and we can also look
 back into the history, we see, for example, there is a report during the plague of Cyprian,
 this is in the third century, Bishop of Alexandria, Dionysios, he is writing, he is giving us
 account that Christians acted in a completely different way when this came, when this disaster
 came, and that showed, that made it manifest to everyone how big a difference it is, ok,
 what he says, most of our brother Christians showed unbounded love and loyalty, never sparing
 themselves and thinking only of one another, heedless of danger they took charge of the
 sick, attending to their very need and ministering to them in Christ, and with them departed
 this life serenely happy, for they were infected by others with the disease, drawing on themselves
 the sickness of their neighbors, and cheerfully accepting their pains, many in nursing and
 curing others transferred their death of those whom they cared, and died in their stead,
 amazing isn't it, then he continues, but with the heathen, with the pagans, everything was
 quite otherwise, they deserted those who began to be sick, and fled from their dearest friends,
 they shunned any participation or fellowship with death, which yet, with all their precautions,
 it was not easy for them to escape. Isn't this what happens now with the pandemics and
 ok, everybody is so much afraid about their own life, and abandoning anyone else, ok,
 it's not my problem, it's not my concern, I want to leave, I want to, ok, and people
 find theories, oh yes, you need to be merciful for man, so that's why everybody needs to
 be like that, ok, and all other things, we see how much we are slipping back into this
 pagan mindset, and even calling ourselves Christians, we are not, ok, by the way we
 live, by our lack of faith, by our lack of self-sacrifice, we are same as those pagans,
 it becomes only my own thing, what I believe, ok, I just put checkmark, I am Christian,
 ok, somebody is Muslim, somebody is, it's just checkmark, but it doesn't show up in
 any way on how you live, what you do, how you treat people, ok, and this becomes real
 big problem, and Christ said that when I come, when the Son of Man comes, will he find any
 faith on Earth, and this is what is happening now, we don't have faith, we don't have real
 faith, let us think about this deeply and let us change, let us ask Lord to give us
 this heart, to give us this eagerness, ok, this strength to be his true followers, not
 only by word, not only nominally, but by how we live and how do we treat others and what
 we do on the daily basis, ok, may Lord help us and give us his blessing, amen.
