 Dear friends, today we will talk about globalization and how a Christian faces these matters.
 With globalization we have convenient transport, we have information technologies which allow
 us to communicate with people around the globe in different languages, and there is a lot
 of convenience coming from this trend.
 And this trend will continue in these pandemics, it seems that it's damaging this globalization.
 In fact it's not, in fact it will make it even faster happen even quicker, because when
 there is some big danger, people unite and there will be some methods and government
 programs across the globe, there might even be a world government to deal with problems
 like that at some point, maybe in future.
 There are talks about it already.
 So this actually brings globalization even faster, even though people say both, the rising
 of nation states and stuff like that, in any case it will go in this direction, eventually
 it will be more and more globalized, the world will be more and more united and globalized.
 And we know from apocalypse that the world in the last days will be just one world, one
 government and we know what kind of government it's gonna be, anti-Christian.
 But the matter is not this, the matter that I want to discuss today is how do we use this
 globalized world, this globalizing technologies and all of that in order to witness our faith.
 And how do we treat this phenomenon.
 There are two concepts which we need to know very well.
 One concept is a union above, union between people in God by us seeking for God, seeking
 for truth that makes us united.
 And this is the union which Christ has prayed for, he prayed that his disciples be united.
 And we pray during the Divine Liturgy that the Lord may unite everyone, we're praying
 for the unity of all the people in the world and the unity of all creation in God.
 And there is nothing wrong with this, however, what is happening now in a spiritual sense
 can be called union below, okay, and this is exact opposite.
 So when we are talking about union we need to know that every good thing the devil can
 steal this word and use it to denote something exact opposite.
 And which is hostile to what the original is.
 So the original union of human hearts in God, in truth, which is the true and fundamental
 union that we can arrive and we should aim for, is replaced by another idea.
 Another idea is what?
 Is that we don't care about any spiritual thing.
 We just care for convenience, pleasure, and, okay, just help each other, why?
 Because of money.
 This union of Babylon, okay, this is what there was also this prototype of this kind
 of union, okay, that everybody derives money and everybody is driven by pleasures and selfishness.
 And this brings to something which looks like union but people are still enemies of each
 other.
 Why?
 Because they have to sacrifice this union from above for the sake of this union below.
 It doesn't go together, unfortunately it doesn't.
 So if we stress this union below, like ecumenism is a good example, people are called not to
 care about religion, not to care about what they believe, just be together.
 Just embrace, tolerate, embrace everybody and just be together, eat pizza together,
 chant songs together, and don't care about any fundamental religious aspects.
 Don't care about God.
 So this is a very big problem.
 We know that when a family, we're hoping that a husband and wife would have this spiritual
 union of their hearts, not just a union like physiological, okay, because, or convenience,
 just a partnership.
 We hope family is not a company, okay, it's not a business enterprise that, okay, everybody
 has some, derives some benefit, it's like win-win situation.
 We hope that family, people are united spiritually, it becomes one heart, one mind.
 So this is a big risk that there is, that people will be united not by God but by mammon.
 This is what we've talked about before, okay.
 And this danger is very big because now with all the benefits, all the economic growth
 that we have, people are more and more immersed in this flesh, okay, this life, life for the
 sake of comfort, for the sake of pleasures, for earning and spending money, and they don't
 ask fundamental questions.
 This is what we need to do to wake up.
 Every day we need to wake up ourselves, okay, where do I go, okay, what's the purpose of
 my life, okay, am I on the right path, am I following Christ, am I doing what he wants,
 am I searching truth, okay, or I just run like that, okay, every day and then just finish
 this life is over and I'm gone, okay.
 So this world, it becomes like a big railway station, okay, people are running, running
 around and there is just noise like that, okay, or like a shopping mall, okay, everybody
 is just concerned, how to spend money, okay, they're thinking about money, about prices,
 about the utility that the products can give to them, okay, to them only, okay, they think
 only about this selfish interest.
 So all these shopping centers, shopping malls, when we go somewhere to do mission, this
 is not the place to do mission.
 People don't want to think about God, they think about, okay, for myself, what can I
 get here for myself, this is the only mindset, there is no place for a higher union, there
 is only this, seems that, okay, everybody's here, there is also this union with many services,
 say sewage service, okay, it's also united, but it's not uniting people really, okay,
 it's and in the same way, we don't want to reach this union below, we want to reach union
 above in God, okay, and this is why every one of us needs to wake up ourselves.
 And then we can use all these benefits of globalization technologies and stuff for us
 to share this spirit, to do testimony, to witness about Christ.
 And that will give us a big success, spiritual success, and the mighty hand of God will be
 with us, okay, this is super important.
 And this is what we need to use, what we need to do about the globalizing world that we
 live in, okay, so may God help every one of us on this path and give us his blessing.
 Amen.
