 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will record a video talk with our parishioner Anna.
 We welcome Anna to our video channel. Anna is studying now in Taiwan, studying Chinese.
 And we will talk about the topic that bothers many people now relating to this war conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
 Hello. Is Christian Orthodox pacifist or no? What is the difference between Christian Orthodox and pacifist?
 Well, this is a good question and many people are now asking should we support some side or as a matter of fact are we pacifist or not?
 Should we go to war to protect our country, our people? What kind of wars are blessed by the church, if any?
 And these questions are asked now by many people.
 So for us, first of all, we need to say that any war is really bad.
 Because it's killing people, it's a lot of suffering and it is against the will of God.
 Because God created this world so that people can enjoy this world, enjoy life in this world and they can find God.
 But during war people cannot enjoy anything. People cannot study, people cannot... And there is hatred everywhere because there is fear, there is all kinds of suffering.
 And of course there is nothing positive about war. So there is no issue about that.
 And the issue of whether we should approve or bless some forms of war, conflict or involvement, it's a very difficult question.
 For the church itself it's a difficult question. And we can see that there are two tendencies.
 The one very common tendency now is to support military, yes, because this is a government function, it has to protect its borders, it has to fulfill some needs.
 So as one form of civil service, of course it has to be supported by the church as also a civil organization.
 Well, this view became predominant after Christianity became widespread, after Christianity became the predominant faith religion in the Roman Empire.
 And when the church had to cooperate very closely with the government, the government was protecting the church and helping it.
 But the church also had to support the government and some basic programs.
 So the position of the church, which is the mainstream, became very much supportive of this, is questioned.
 Because we need to see what was the practice and position of the church before that.
 Before we became part of this big organization.
 When the church was persecuted and was in very big tension with the government, with all the official government, police and army.
 So at that time, when we read the writings of holy fathers, we discovered that there was not a simple solution.
 They don't provide us a simple answer to this question.
 And on the one hand, they say that if somebody is serving in the government, we should not tell him not to do that.
 So when they were in the times of Christ, some pagan warriors, centurions, they were praised by Christ.
 And one of them became Christian, baptized by the apostle Peter.
 And also John the Baptist. St. John, when he saw soldiers coming and they asked, "What should we do? We want to repent. How do we change our life?"
 He did not tell them, "Oh, just abandon your service and become pacifist."
 He did not say that. He just said that you should not treat people with injustice wrongly.
 And you should not demand more pay, more salary than you get.
 So this is what he told them.
 We can see that there is no real pacifist position of the church. The church is not pacifist.
 However, there are many holy fathers that they say that for a Christian, even to see somebody die, being killed, is something really that he has to avoid.
 It's a domination. He has to feel some escape, such sin of murder or having somebody killed in the war.
 So even if he is like that, he should even more avoid all kinds of involvement in this conflict, going and killing people.
 So some church fathers, they say that Christians could not wear swords with them.
 If they are wronged, they should turn another cheek.
 On one cheek you turn the other one, and you don't use power to stop or to prevent, to do any revenge, retaliate against some kind of evil aggression.
 And even if somebody is robbing your house, you don't go sue them. You don't do that as Christians.
 Many people maybe don't like what I'm saying, but this is the attitude that Christians had at that time.
 They understood that this is the gospel.
 But most of us nowadays, we don't live like that.
 And the church becomes more and more like logic, like just regular people.
 And this becomes because we are less eager to be radical in following Christ.
 We try to just have some peace of mind and be good people and think, okay, we are Christians because this is about the church, we pray.
 But we don't follow him radically as he is calling us in the gospel.
 So this is the big issue.
 And I also need to say that there is no clear answer.
 We won't find clear rule. Nobody goes to army, or nobody does this, or everybody does this.
 This is very individual, and you need to ask advice from spiritual father.
 You need to do some research on yourself in the situation which you're in, what you do, and find answer.
 And also we need to have this feeling that we pray and that God is giving us sanction either to participate in some conflict as soldiers or not.
 Like in the Old Testament, we see many wars, we were blessed by God, that people go and do that.
 But do we also have that blessing?
 Most of the time, if somebody is interested in that military stuff, he has just some passion for guns and for some military thing.
 If there is something like that, most likely it comes from passion, from this thirst for blood or for some adrenaline or something like that, which is not healthy spiritually.
 A spiritual person should feel that these things better keep away from, unless really, really you have to.
 So this is, in a nutshell, the position of the, not of the official church maybe, but of the holy people who are very much telling us what is the spirit of Christianity.
 Who is the saint warrior and why is the Orthodox Church older than?
 This is also a good question, because people say, "Well, you have so many saints who are soldiers, who are warriors."
 Well, this means that, of course, everybody has to go to war and you also have this military lexicon saying the church is like army and you have to be vigilant and fight and things like that.
 Well, the spiritual warfare and the real warfare is two different things. This is one thing to note.
 If you are a spiritual warrior, it doesn't mean that you have to have AK-47 in your house.
 If you are a spiritual warrior, maybe you need a prayer book, you need the gospel, you need to be praying all the time.
 And that will keep you safe and to your family and your country, much more than AK-47.
 But coming back to the soldiers who are saints, we know that there are none of the saints who are canonized, who are recognized as saints because of their military achievements.
 Because they are good soldiers, because they had many victories in the war and that's why they became saints.
 There are no saints like that. We have to know that.
 But many of the soldiers in the Roman army, even in the time of persecution when the church was illegal, still there were quite a few soldiers, Christians, in the army.
 And they were very loyal, they were very brave, they were very responsible.
 So this is why they made good soldiers and they had very good career most of the time.
 They're not involved in debauchery or in some other scenes like most of Roman army.
 At that time, Roman army had very low moral standards.
 So they were raised fast.
 And at some point, when they were discovered that they are Christians, they were forced to abandon their faith and to commit these rituals of giving some sacrifice
 or some kind of adoration to be done to the Emperor or to other gods, Mars and other gods of war or other gods.
 So when they refused that, they became martyrs. They were killed and sometimes very brutally.
 But they were considered saints because of their love for Christ, not because of their service as soldiers.
 So we need to also distinguish these two things.
 At some point in the history of Byzantine, there was one Emperor, Nikifor Phokas, who wanted his soldiers, who were heroes, they were killed in the war.
 And he wanted to make them saints of the church because their achievement was so great and so amazing.
 But he really wanted to do that and he tried to force, to impose the church to canonize them.
 But the church refused. It was very difficult for the church to refuse the Emperor, but it had its stand very firm that no, we cannot do that.
 So from that instance, from that time, we know that we cannot canonize someone just because he is a brave soldier, he sacrificed his life in the war and things like that.
 These are two different things.
 As a soldier you need to do your job as good as you can, but as a Christian you have different responsibilities of loving God,
 of sacrificing yourselves for the sake of others, not killing somebody, but letting others kill you.
 So this is a very different achievement, spiritual achievement that we need to be ready, we need to be willing to have.
 And it doesn't have to contradict with this military service, it doesn't have to.
 But these are two things, two different things.
 So just maybe to sum up, thank you very much Anna.
 Maybe to sum up, I want to wish that this conflict in Armenia, Azerbaijan will be finished very soon.
 We need to be peacemakers, peacekeepers, we need to promote peace.
 We don't take part in any of these conflicting parties, we don't take sides.
 We don't say that Armenia is right or Azerbaijan is right and this history and things.
 If we go into that history, into that nation and nation and all those things, we will become not a church.
 We will just be completely intermixed with different interest groups and with different theories and we will be involved in that war.
 We need to be involved only as peacemakers, to make people ceasefire, go home, stop hatred.
 That is our goal, this is our prayer, this is our mission as Christians.
 May the Lord help us, give us his blessing and give us his wisdom.
