 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about a very important topic about
 the path that can lead us to salvation. Our Lord, Jesus Christ, He said that
 the path to salvation is narrow and very few follow Him, walk this path. But the
 path to destruction, perdition, is broad, is very wide and many are those who walk
 this path. What is this path? Are we walking? Have we begun walking this path?
 And the Lord also said that the gates to the kingdom of heaven are narrow and
 many will try to squeeze into those gates but they won't be able to do that
 and will be thrown away, they were left out and there will be a weeping and
 gnashing of teeth outside. And it will be too late and nothing can be done. Okay, so
 these words are very tough and not easy. So let us think about these words
 because it's better to think now than later when we get into that situation.
 Even though those people, they will say, "Lord, Lord, we believe you and we were
 doing many things in your name, chasing demons and stuff." But he will say, "Sorry, I
 don't know you guys, who you are and you are selfish and doers of all kinds of
 evil." So they won't be with him. So this is very alarming words and we need to
 think about this a lot. Okay, so today let us think about three comparisons. It's
 like parables that can help us to understand better what is this
 path is like and how to begin walking it. First of all, when we love
 someone, when we love our loved ones, our spouse or children or
 someone, we think about them all the time. They are in our heart. We
 message them, we call them. If we don't see them, don't talk to them for a long
 time. We feel lonely, we have a bad mood, we don't want anything. Do we have
 the same towards God, towards Christ? Are we longing for Christ? We're not.
 We need to be honest with ourselves at least. We are not looking for him.
 We don't really care. On Sunday, yes, I go to church and I pray and I
 have cross and so pretty much this is okay. But it's not, okay, this is not.
 Because if we don't love him, we don't keep even the first commandment
 which says that even the Old Testament commandment, we don't keep it, let alone the
 New Testament. In the Old Testament, the main commandment which is still
 valid now, hear Israel and we are new Israel, we are the church, new Israel, love
 your God is the only God and love your God with all your heart, all your
 strength, all your mind and all your soul and love your neighbor or close one as
 yourself. So do we love God like that? Do we put all our energy of our heart
 into loving God, chasing him, finding his truth, trying to please him in any in
 every way? We're not. We don't live like that. And this is a big
 problem and you ask me, well, if I love him, I don't love my other relatives like
 that. No, if we love God in the way where we should, okay, then we will love
 everybody else in the healthy way, not selfishness, not selfish way, like a
 possession, I possess someone, okay, he's my thing, he's my child, he's my spouse or
 something. No, so we will have true love to others because love God and love
 people are two sides of same coin, okay, without loving God we cannot
 really love people in the way we should and, okay, so this is very important, okay,
 we need to make this a problem, okay, this is a problem, I don't love God, can we
 be honest, I don't love God, okay, we need to be honest with ourselves and put much
 more effort into waking up, into finding, love him for what, and we always need
 to put to chase and he will see our efforts and then he will give us this
 gift of true faith that will empower us to pursue him, okay, the second
 thing we need to compare is we have many goals in our life, okay, earn money, buy
 house, raise family, career development, some other things, maybe hobbies, maybe
 healthy life, fitness, I don't know, many different goals, okay, which, what is
 our, you know, where is God in these priorities, is he a priority, is he the
 priority, okay, we will discover then he's not because if he would be then we wake
 up every day and we think about him, okay, what do we do for him, Jesus Christ, I'm
 I'm following him, he is my goal, I want to be with him every day, not when I die,
 okay, every day, we don't have that goal, okay, we don't have that goal and like
 that we can see he's number 23, okay, and I have many other things in my agenda, he
 has to be one number one, this is the only way, okay, if we want to have life,
 if we want to draw a life from him, he has to become the first and foremost
 priority, now we see even for clergy, okay, to build a church, okay, build a house or
 do some project becomes more important than to be with Christ, even even the
 church sometimes clergyman can be, okay, have this priority wrong, okay, so this
 problem doesn't concern only lay people, it's everybody's problem, okay, so and you
 will say well if he will become priority, do I become a nun or monk, okay, I don't
 have anything else, I don't care about anything else, okay, I become maybe I
 become like ant, okay, that naturally has to follow some path and become like
 slave, I cannot do anything, in the same sense we become slaves, but not in our
 normal way of understanding this term, okay, we Lord God, he doesn't
 want us to be like this without any will, without any just followers or you know
 he wants us to be creators as he himself is creator and what does it mean, it
 means that every day we have freedom of creating new projects, of saying some
 things, of building relationships, we have this great gift that God gives us
 and we can be creators even the sweeping the floors, okay, if we get that talent,
 okay, it doesn't mean that we have to be Michelangelo, okay, so let us let and if
 we follow him everything else becomes subject to this, doesn't mean that we
 don't do anything, we have no hobbies, no interests, and no nothing else, we just
 just pray every day, not necessarily, okay, we can be very active and very much
 involved in many different things and of course have our job and many other
 things, but all of that will be subject to Christ, we will see Christ in
 everything we do, okay, this is what when this is like that then things gain their
 true value and they don't become idols for us, idols is what is squeezing God
 away from our heart, these are idols and we've got much many idols that we worship,
 okay, not worship like that, but that we have, that fill our heart
 completely and squeeze God away from it, so let us crush all those idols and
 put God in the altar in our heart and then everything else that we do will
 make sense and will bring us joy, okay, the last parable that I want to say is
 related to this how do we follow him, what does it mean follow, okay, where do I
 fall, where is the path itself, well you can imagine you are, you want to be a
 champion, okay, say tennis or soccer or something, okay, you want to be a champion
 in some sports, every day you have your schedule, every day you have this goal,
 okay, you are training yourself and you're growing, okay, be it
 career, be it something else, you would need, if you or maybe you are a scholar,
 okay, if you say okay now for two years I don't care about this, okay, I do
 something else, then it will be much more difficult for you to come back, maybe if
 you won't be able to do that, okay, maybe it will be too late if you
 just stop and just switch to something else, but for us we think oh
 God is always there, he's always waiting for me anytime I can switch to anything
 and then I'll go back to him, it doesn't work like that, okay, if we break this
 covenant, break it, okay, and leave like we're not Christians, we don't receive
 Holy Communion, we don't pray, okay, we just do some, have some different
 lifestyle, okay, it's not that easy for us to recover this relationship and
 it will be maybe different relationship already, okay, for example if we have a
 war, we are army, okay, and we are in war with someone, if we say okay now for a
 couple days I don't want to do it, okay, I do something else, then we lose, okay, and
 we lose our country and later we cannot do it anymore, okay, we're out, okay,
 we're off, so this is the same way, if we follow him it introduces some
 different dimension in our life, okay, and this dimension becomes the main
 dimension, okay, and everything else becomes subject to this, okay, and we
 don't just throw it away, okay, and even a better parable is if we want to create a
 family, okay, we love someone, we want to marry a woman, say, or a woman wants to
 marry a man, there is some process, okay, of dating, of, okay, we present gifts, okay,
 we write each other, we keep in touch, this, we cannot just say, okay, now
 for half a year we don't, we just do something else, we're more busy, and very
 often when you say why you don't come to church, I'm busy, I'm busy, well we say
 like that with our relationship, sorry, I'm busy for a couple months, we don't
 communicate, okay, I'm too busy now, then maybe after a few months she's gone, okay,
 and you cannot just recover, it's gone, okay, she married somebody else, okay, or
 okay, maybe it's not too late, but maybe it is, so this is why it's not that, okay,
 we wait until we are old and then all of a sudden we begin praying, reading
 Bible, and no, we have to begin now, and every day, okay, every day be with Christ,
 make him the goal, make this relationship with him the main goal in our life, okay,
 there is a certain algorithm, like you want to win a war, you follow certain
 algorithms step by step, you win this war, or your career development or anything,
 in the same way this algorithm, there is an algorithm, it might be unique for
 every individual person, but there is one, okay, and this algorithm is this sequence,
 this, this path that the Lord wants us to go, to walk, is fair, and we have to find
 it, okay, and we have to follow it and walk, no matter how difficult it is, how
 painful it might be, okay, and we don't lose freedom when we walk, but we see
 that it is narrow, it is quite narrow, that it's because I receive love, life
 from this path, if I switch it off, okay, I become dead again, why we have so many
 wars, and people make crazy mistakes, and they get drunk, and they get, okay, the
 whole life goes astray, why so many, because people, they don't have God in
 front of them, and what, what they have, anything else, and this is us, it's not
 some people, okay, it's us, we have those things, and not God in front of us, and in
 such circumstance, Christ is saying you're spiritually dead, and he has led
 those dead men to bury their dead, bury their dead, and this is very tough
 words, very harsh words, but this is true, we might be very active, and you might be
 very smart, and, but spiritually we're dead, okay, if we don't draw life from
 Christ, and if he is not the goal of our life, and the, the, the beloved one of, for
 us, so let us seek, search, crave for such love, for such a relationship, and develop
 this relationship every day, may God help, and bless you on this path, help you
 discover it, and walk it every day, I mean.
