 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about this world and whether this world is
 something good or something bad, because we read in the Bible different things. We read
 that this world is created by God, it's blessed by God, it's given to man for management,
 and the man is enjoying this world in paradise, Eden, Eden means pleasure, so this is a place
 where there should be a lot of pleasure coming, and everything seems to be fine, and later
 the people of Israel are promised the promised land, God is promising this land which will
 bring fruit and which will be a great blessing for them, so it's also something material
 in this world that is promised, given by God, so we see that there is nothing bad, seems
 to be nothing bad in this world, and also the Lord himself, he comes and becomes flesh,
 becomes a human like us, meaning that he is blessing, he is affirming this world as something
 good, because there was this heresy of many heresies gnosticism which said that this world
 is bad, it's created by bad God, and this matter is the source of evil, and everything
 is in there in this world of ideas, this comes from Platonism and from Greek philosophy that
 basically valued absolute things, some fundamental things, and this world became just a source
 of temptations and some filthiness and dirt, and this also influenced many Christian communities
 and thinkers, so this is heresy, because God has blessed this world, and has blessed everything
 in this world, and we've talked about how nature praises the Lord, we read about this
 in Psalms, that the moon and sun and stars are praising the Lord, and the nature rivers
 and mountains and flowers, we've talked about it, it's a celebration, they are praising
 the Lord, so there is no problem about this created material world, however we also read
 in Gospel that Christ has said that "don't love this world and what is in this world",
 and the Apostle Paul said that this world lies in evil, and there are other things,
 the Lord is speaking about the king of this world, or the lord of this world, meaning
 Satan, that he has the power and control of this world, so there is this tension between
 the world and Christ, his message, his gospel, there is enmity, this world is represented
 by Mammon, and the Lord says "you cannot worship Mammon and God", so there is a lot
 of danger coming from this world, and what is this danger? Basically, this world can
 become for us two things, there are two options. This created world can become for us the school
 of knowing God, of learning his wisdom, of learning how to praise him and to thank him,
 it can become for us the true school of righteousness and sanctity, but it also can become for us
 something else, it can become for us the source of temptations, and the source of being separate
 from God, and being misled and pulled in the wrong direction, and eventually have our life
 perish and destroyed and have a miserable outcome, and the Lord is even calling people
 who don't know him, who don't follow him, dead people, they are already dead, they are
 still living, but they are already dead, corpses. So there are some harsh words that we hear,
 but we need to understand what's the answer, and how do we match these things together.
 The Lord says in his prayer to God the Father, he asks not to take his disciples from the
 world but to protect them from evil. So we can see that the Lord is approving this world
 but is disapproving of the evil that is in this world, and this evil can become so tight
 and so much that it becomes the law and the governing force, the principle of this world,
 and this is what we see, and it becomes worse and worse. Because we see that we remember
 the Tower of Babel, people were getting together and they were building, building, but they
 were doing this without God, they were just proud and arrogant that we have this power,
 we can do these things, and the Lord cursed this and mixed up their languages, their tongues,
 so that they could not understand each other, and they just ran in different directions
 and this project failed. So we can see that there are things that when people are sort
 of focusing on this world, because if no God, they don't care about God, what can they care
 about? They can care about making this world their kingdom, making this world developed,
 this is the word development. What is happening with development, with all the technology
 and all these abilities that we have, airplanes, communications, basically the driving spirit
 behind it, what is it? Is it to glorify God, or is it an attempt to create our own world,
 which is stable? We have these buildings and bridges and infrastructure that we hope give
 us comfort and we can use it for centuries. If we compare the world today with the world
 say 2-3,000 years ago, we can see that at that time people were more like guests, they
 came, they've done this, they've done that, some wars, some things, and then they left.
 But we, us, we are focusing on making this world some place where we can live forever,
 where we have pension plans and accumulate much funds in order to provide for, we can
 have anything we want, financial freedom and stuff, because we really think this is precious,
 this is all we've got. And this is exactly what Lord is saying, that this becomes mammon,
 this becomes idol, which is blocking God, which is making us separate from him. So this
 is this danger that we need to remember. And where is the answer, where is the solution
 to all these problems? The main solution is in Christ himself. It is only through Christ
 and in Christ that we can gain this harmony, this synthesis, that we're not just trying
 to run away from this world to some fantasy world, to some gay spiritual world and we
 just forget about this. No, we are living in this world but we have the kingdom of heaven
 in us, we are bearing it with us. And this kingdom of heaven is uniting for us everything
 together. We are not afraid of the evil that is in this world. We can protect ourselves,
 we have like a vaccine against these evil things, okay, we turn away from any evil stuff.
 And we are not afraid to face this world and to carry on the mission, to continue the mission
 of Christ who came to the world. And now he's sending us into this world that we can bear
 his mission and keep going, continue his mission, okay. So this should give us a lot of power,
 a lot of motivation to keep going, to keep bringing fruit for our Lord. So this is the
 solution. And in the 1 Corinthians 15 verse 32 there are words of the Apostle Paul who
 says that if there is no resurrection, everything that I do is meaningless, what should we do?
 We eat and drink because tomorrow we'll die, okay. And this is what it becomes when there
 is no resurrection which is in Christ. He said I am life and I am resurrection. This
 is what Christ has said. And if there is no Christ in our life, there is no resurrection
 in our life that we experience and we are expecting, then this world becomes what we
 just eat and drink and have fun and tomorrow we'll die, okay. So we just get as much as
 we can out of this life. Okay, this is another logic which is completely wrong, okay. So
 with Christ we can also eat and drink no problem but we will know what is important and what
 is not, okay. And we will now know that ministry to our Lord is the most important priority
 in our lives. May Lord give us this understanding, protect us from all kinds of temptations and
 misunderstandings and mistakes and give us His blessing and His wisdom and His guidance,
 I mean.
