 Dear friends, today I want to say a few words about culture and how Christianity relate
 to culture.
 Because very often we hear words like "Christian culture" coming to somewhere else, to some
 new places, bringing some Christian culture.
 And sometimes there is this culture collision between different cultures.
 So, people speak about Christian culture and post-Christian culture and other cultures,
 maybe Buddhist cultures or some other cultures.
 And this brings us into some feeling that Christianity is some local event and in other
 places it's something else.
 And this is a great mistake, because the message of God, the Covenant of God is Covenant between
 God and man.
 Any man, any kind of human being is called to be united with Christ and is called to
 become a children of the Kingdom of Heaven.
 So, we need to understand what does it mean to have a Christian culture, what is Christian
 culture?
 And how do we go about inculturation in the mission places, what does it mean?
 Well, the term culture means some kind of tradition, the way of building relationships
 between people, some phrases, etiquette, dressing, clothing and other things that are typical
 for some locations.
 Nowadays we live in a world of globalization and post-modernism, in a world which is reducing
 different cultural effects and people more and more become unculturized.
 This is not some new culture, it's actually a loss of traditional cultures and eventually
 it can bring us to a loss of even being humans, because sometimes this is related to some
 very sinful way of thinking, way of life, which makes people even worse than animals.
 People live a very sinful and miserable life and they think that this is it, this is liberty,
 this is freedom, but actually this is loss of even some basic human values and basic
 culture.
 So, it is important to distinguish these things.
 This is anti-culture, all this post-modern stuff, basically it's just like a sickness
 which is trying to destroy all kinds of cultural things in people all across the globe.
 But today we are not talking about this, today I want to talk about cultures which are cultures.
 Even now if we go to different countries, Asia, Africa, we will see that people treat
 each other differently, even if they speak our language we can communicate in English
 or their local language, we will discover that their values, their habits, many things
 are different.
 This can be called the local culture of these places, of these countries.
 It is important for us to understand that Christianity is not a culture, Christianity
 is union with the source of life, Christ is giving us true life that brings us the kingdom
 of heaven into our hearts.
 And when we become children of heavens and children of salvation, then of course we live
 in a special way, we keep commandments of God, we change our values, we change our fundamental
 beliefs and that would influence our culture in some way.
 But this is something very basic which is universal for all people and for all countries.
 For example, in all countries nowadays we have taxi drivers or we have some people of
 same profession, say policemen.
 But in different countries, for example, police culture would be different or taxi driver
 culture would be different, there would be some different things in different countries.
 However, the basic function of a taxi driver, say, is to bring you from point A to point
 B. And this is basic and this is what is Christianity, it's this basic truth, basic life and covenant
 that we have with God that brings us from sin to salvation and freedom and kingdom of
 heaven.
 This is the basic, it's something which is universal.
 And later, of course, in different countries with different peoples, when they receive
 Christianity they bring different fruits, they have a little bit different clothing,
 little bit different iconography, little bit different ways of having divine liturgy and
 other little local peculiarities, chanting and many other things.
 And these local things, they are valuable, however, they are not belonging to this fundamental
 spiritual reality that is given to us in receiving the body of Christ.
 And this is why no matter in which country you go, in which place you go, in which Orthodox
 church you would go in America, say, Bulgarian, Serbian, Russian, Greek, in any church you
 would receive the body of Christ.
 You will meet your brothers and sisters, one family.
 And this is what is fundamental to Christianity and to this function of the church that brings
 us, gives us this bridge from this fallen world, a world which has this sin living in
 it into the world of Christ.
 But we are not departing from this world, but we are uniting with the true world kingdom
 of heaven and it's living in us.
 And the divine liturgy is, it keeps going in our hearts.
 So we need to remember this and different people when they become united with Christ,
 they might have to change something in their cultures, especially if it's a very intricate
 and developed culture.
 Because say you want to become a soldier, if you are young and you don't have too many
 habits, basically you learn fast and you adjust more quickly.
 If you are older and you have your own ways of doing things, it will be more difficult
 to adjust.
 You will have to sacrifice many things, many ways of doing things in order to adjust and
 to become a good soldier.
 In the same sense, if our way of life and our culture, maybe personal culture is loaded
 with many things which are conflicting with the way of life in Christ, then we will have
 to sacrifice it.
 But we need to know that we sacrifice things which are contrary to the word of God.
 But everything in our culture, in our personality that is good and valuable, it will receive
 this life from Christ and will make us even more able to bring fruits and to have these
 talents that we have, bring even more output and bloom, so to say, and glorify God.
 So many things in some local culture may become, you know, enlivened, have this new life coming
 from Christ and bring even more color, more fruits in Christ than other cultures, other
 places, okay?
 So let us know what is valuable, what is absolute and what is relevant, okay?
 And stick to Christ, have union with Him and let Him guide us, okay?
 He will change anything in our culture that has to be changed, that needs to be changed.
 And whatever needs to be kept and needs to be maybe transformed, He will do it.
 We just need to have humbleness in our hearts, have decisiveness in cutting with all kinds
 of sin and evil, just erasing it from our hearts, from our life, and keeping away from
 it.
 And God will guide us and make us His children and give us this joy of bringing fruit in
 His grace.
 May Lord help you and give you His wisdom and His blessing, I mean.
