 Dear friends, a very important question that we need to discuss is why spiritual gifts
 become so few in our times.
 What do I mean?
 Well, we see that in the early church many people were prophets.
 Many people were willing to become martyrs.
 People were praying all night long, every day.
 They were eager to go to other countries to bring faith.
 And they were not afraid of anything.
 And many were selling all their properties for the sake of God.
 And donated to the poor people.
 And for them this motivation to serve Christ was so great.
 And many of them received spiritual gifts that they were able to speak directly to God
 and receive His messages.
 And many other gifts were given to the early Christians.
 So after 100 years, we read already in the end of 2nd century, we read Christians, they
 write that now there is already weakness of faith.
 Now we already have this scarcity of those gifts compared to what happened in the past.
 So at that time they already referred to the previous times as times of blooming.
 And the times which were example for them to improve, to become stronger in faith, more
 eager in faith.
 Because it already became weaker.
 And now we have already 2000 years have passed from the times of Christ and faith became
 even much weaker than before.
 Even compared to 100 years ago.
 This secularization is so strong.
 And we see that now for most Christians to be pious means to go to church on Sunday.
 And what does it mean?
 It means that to dedicate 2 hours of your time to go and spend in the prayer.
 But later the whole week is spent on all other things and people forget about God and get
 completely immersed into these worldly matters and have all kinds of priorities and all kinds
 of things.
 And this is why we have people always commit the same and same sins.
 You know it's becoming very difficult to gain any spiritual gift.
 So this is what is now considered very pious people.
 And we are asking how come the gifts are so few?
 And in the church we have less and less elders.
 Maybe almost no elders.
 Now who are elders?
 elders are the people who can prophesize, they can see who you are, what's your background,
 what's your problem.
 They can pray and they can solve your problem.
 They ask God to heal you and you're getting healed right away on the spot.
 There are people like that in the church but fewer and fewer.
 Maybe not anymore.
 But we had some in recent past.
 In any case we can see that this willingness to sacrifice yourself becomes less and less.
 And kindness and true love shining in the eyes of Christians or faithful becomes less
 and less.
 And this is why many people are going to sects and Islam and other religions.
 And many crazy religions.
 Many people become atheist and become Gethinist.
 No religion just enjoy your life.
 So many of these problems happen because of this lack of faith and lack of spiritual gifts
 in our modern day Christians.
 So why does this happen and what we can do about it?
 The first principle, the first rule that any Christian, anyone who considers himself Christian
 should have is to say the root problem is me.
 I myself is the core problem to anything.
 Be it social issues, even politics, even anything.
 First we say I am the problem.
 I have not done many things that I could have done and that the Lord would hope I can do
 but I did not do it.
 I am lazy, I am selfish, I myself don't have true faith, I am not eager in faith.
 So we begin from ourselves.
 We don't say it's other people, it's their problem.
 No the problem is us, me and you.
 And the second rule comes from the first.
 The second rule is that the biggest opportunity to change this situation, this problem is
 also me, it's also myself.
 I need to begin from myself changing this world, from what I can do today, tomorrow,
 every day to change this situation.
 And if we treat this matter like this, it will really be improved.
 We can result in many changes, bring about many changes with the Lord's help.
 So these two rules we always need to keep in mind, no matter what we are talking about.
 So today we are talking about this matter, this weakness of faith and lack of gifts.
 So how we know it, now many people they don't read gospel at all, they consider themselves
 faithful but they don't read gospel, they don't pray, they don't witness about their
 faith to others, they're not willing to do that.
 Why is that?
 The core issue is selfishness.
 Everybody is obsessed and concerned about himself or herself.
 My future, my comfort, my life, my problems, everybody is thinking just about this.
 This is right here, it's our main thing.
 And another thing that comes out of it is that we are busy with anything, we have all
 kinds of priorities which are above God, the gospel, the kingdom of heaven, these priorities.
 My job, my career, my comfort, my properties, my bills, my whatever, hobbies.
 We have many, many things which come first.
 And the gospel and God and serving him becomes somewhere else.
 These are the two main priorities, two main problems why this happens.
 And Christ, he said that in the gospel of John 14 21, he said that "who loves me will
 obey my commandments".
 And we don't even know what's the Lord's commandments.
 More often we don't even think about it too much.
 What is it, 10 commandments or what is meant by commandments of Christ?
 The commandments of Christ are words of Christ that should live inside us.
 Because we would think about them all the time, we would read gospel every day.
 And we will see in everyday situations how do these work.
 And the first and foremost is of course this sacrifice of yourself, forget about your own
 soul and you will gain it.
 If you think only about your own soul, your own life, your well-being, you will lose it.
 You will become spiritually dead.
 This is the main, one of the main commandments and "bear your cross, follow me, follow Christ".
 We need to keep this.
 That will show that we love him, otherwise we don't.
 And he said that whoever keeps my commandments, also here in John 14 21, my father will love
 him.
 He will be beloved by my father and he will be beloved by me.
 And I will come and manifest myself to him.
 So this will happen.
 What means the Lord will manifest himself to us?
 That means that we will know how he is, we will be united with him.
 And this will be some reality, not just we know how God exists, or Jesus Christ is the
 Savior.
 Yes, Jesus Christ is the Savior.
 No, we will know him personally, directly.
 As he said to the apostle Philip, you are with me so much time and you don't know, you
 ask me, show us the Father, I am, the Lord tells him.
 So it is important that we discover Christ.
 He manifests himself to us and he makes our hearts different to bring fruit in faith.
 And also, what does it mean that God the Father will love such men?
 Doesn't he love everyone?
 The Lord God is loving God.
 Well, in very different ways.
 The Lord loves nature, flowers.
 He loves flowers, he loves birds.
 But well, do you want to be loved in the same way as the bird is loved?
 There is a very special love that the Lord can love those who love him.
 It's a very different kind of love.
 And we want to be loved by God in this way, to be dear and precious to him.
 So this is very important for us to think about.
 Why are we not loved by God?
 Because we're doing something wrong.
 Or not doing what we should do.
 So we will, what we can do on this individual level, we need to solve every problem on individual.
 Not to write about it everywhere and say, guys, you have problem.
 No, it's us, every one of us has this problem.
 So what do we do?
 We need to wake up every morning with a thought, okay, I am not doing enough, okay?
 I need to wake up.
 What can I do today to serve the Lord?
 To please him?
 This was my question today, I woke up.
 And we criticize ourselves all the time.
 I'm doing something not enough, okay?
 The Apostle Paul tells us, you need to run, you need to run as on this competition, okay?
 And you need to grasp this reward at the end.
 You will get this crown of the winner, but you need to run.
 So we need to always think, well, I'm too lazy, I'm not doing what I supposed to do.
 So spiritually we need to never give up, never relax, okay?
 We need to awaken ourselves spiritually, because the Lord said, those who don't follow me,
 they're like dead, spiritually dead, it's very harsh words, but this is true.
 So let us awaken ourselves, searching for God.
 Always having this craving for him, okay?
 And practicing in repentance, in changing ourselves, in breaking with the old self,
 how this decisiveness, break with old self, I break away from all my sinful habits with
 all my wrong ideas, I need to be ready to just change my whole mind to be with Christ,
 to follow him, to serve him as much as I can, and to bring as many fruits as I can for Christ.
 May Lord give us this eagerness, this motivation, this heart, and help us on this path to grow
 spiritually and to get closer to him day by day, I mean, God bless.
