 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will pleasantly, joyfully talk about unpleasant things.
 About sadness, about hardships, about some difficulties that we may experience in our life.
 And in our times this becomes even more important because of these pandemics.
 The people are suffering economically, psychologically.
 The number of suicides has grown up.
 The number of cases with drug overdose and many other things are rising now on the rise.
 And this is telling us that people are really suffering.
 In some countries the economy is destroyed and things are really bad, really difficult.
 So for us it's important to think more about situations like that.
 Because every one of us has been in such a situation when things are bad.
 And we need to be ready for anything.
 As soldiers of Christ we need to be ready for that.
 Even if right now things are going well.
 So today we will talk about this.
 Because when we are in some bad situation, when we are really suffering, it's pain.
 We experience pain or anxiety about where to get money or what will happen tomorrow.
 Things like that.
 These experiences, in these circumstances, actually the Lord is closer to us than any other time.
 Because He is together with those who mourn and suffer.
 He is really close to us.
 However, we might still be far away from Him.
 Because we might be in despair, we might be in some kind of depression and angry at everybody, at all the world, at life.
 We might be really far away from God at that moment.
 But this is a very good opportunity for us at that moment to turn to God.
 He is very close to us at that time, He really wants to support us, to rescue us.
 But our heart is somewhere else, it's blinded.
 And this is the time for us to come to our senses and to turn to Him.
 And this is why many people are coming to the church after some kind of suffering.
 As a parish priest, I see this very often, that some kind of suffering is bringing people to church.
 So, our daily life.
 Our daily life, we are trying to make our life better.
 This is our routine work direction.
 We are trying to earn money, we are trying to improve our family relationships.
 And this is our main concern during every day.
 However, the biggest risk is that being concerned with those things, with making life better, we are forgetting about God.
 This is the biggest spiritual risk and in fact this is what happens very often, almost all the time, in all the cases.
 Because everything is going well, well, why do I need God?
 Just to be there, have an icon, be sure that everything is fine, I am fine, He is fine, everybody is fine.
 But we don't really need Him.
 So, this is why the Lord may send us messages and make us see that life is not that easy.
 So, even when we reach some kind of so-called happy life, some kind of stability in our life, this might be not very long.
 Might be not too long, because we forgot about God and this is the biggest problem.
 So, this is why it is important for us to always have these priorities in the right way.
 That no matter what I do, I work, I study, I rest, I have some other activity, I seek God everywhere, in everything.
 My heart is always alive in prayer, I talk to God, I see God in other people.
 My whole life is filled with this mission that the Lord has given me.
 And if we live with the Lord, and no matter what we do, this will have a prolonged blessing of the Lord. We will have His blessing and He will be close to us all the time.
 Even when things are going well, because He will know that we are not attached deeply to that.
 And those things in our life, they are not blocking Him. He is the main priority for us.
 So this is what's important. No need to wait until these big sufferings come, big tortures or something else comes in our life, tragedies or things like that.
 We prepare ahead of time. We use even smaller misfortunes or some suffering in order for us to become meeker, to have compassion to people.
 We can discover that people who've experienced something like really bad, maybe they were in some concentration camp, or maybe they have all their family died, orphans, or they experienced war, some big tragedy in their life.
 Usually those people would be kind, more kind than others. They will be more understanding, willing to listen to your problem.
 They will be more, less selfish, more humble. You can feel some kind of warmth from these people.
 They are not like, I can, I can do whatever, I am the best, I am the most important, my opinion is most.
 They are not like that. And it's not weakness, it's actually strength.
 You might think that it's as though something is broken in those people.
 Sometimes that's the case, but not always. Usually it's not brokenness. Maybe it's the proudness and selfishness that is broken.
 But this brings some other fragrance, spiritual fragrance to their life, to their heart, and they become more compassionate to others and become more kinder.
 There is some wisdom in their eyes. Why this happens? This happens because at that time they got real close to God, and they've used that opportunity in the right way.
 Most of the time this is like that. Even if they don't understand this themselves, sometimes people don't realize this, but God has brought them through this educational training, and now they became like that.
 So we should not be afraid of any kind of difficulties, sufferings that come into our life. We should be strong in Christ. Be ready to withstand anything.
 In Psalm 34 the Lord said that many are the sufferings, sorrows for the righteous, but the Lord will deliver them from all of them.
 There might be a lot of different sorrows and unpleasant things, but Christian has a deep hope and feeling that he is going to the kingdom of heaven, and this is reality that's in his heart.
 And that all of that is just temporary things that he has to go through, and become stronger, become soldier of Christ even better, and that other people can rely upon him.
 So this is what the Lord wants us to do, to be like, and he will give us this blessing. We just need to have the right direction in our mind, in our life, and not forget about him.
 We need to be in the middle, not too relaxed. I'm just easy going, relaxed, I don't care about anything, because life is good. Not like that.
 And of course not having some panic or some kind of stress out. We should be in the middle. We should be spiritually alive, vigilant, and always remembering about God.
 Not getting too much relaxed, but still remaining joy and walking with confidence in this life, because the Lord is with us and is guiding us.
 May the Lord give us such heart, such life, and give us his blessing. Amen.
