 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about being chosen by God.
 This is important because it has to do with each and every one of us.
 Are we the chosen ones or we are not?
 And we are chosen for what?
 We are chosen to be the receivers, the heirs of the kingdom of heaven and of eternal life
 and joy with God, in eternal union with Jesus Christ in the heavens.
 So this is a very critical point and we need to know first if we are chosen ourselves and
 if we are chosen is this enough?
 Can we just relax and just wait for something good, okay?
 Well first we need to discuss one issue that people ask.
 How come Christians, those who follow Christ, those who are disciples, true disciples of
 Christ are the chosen ones and they get it for free?
 It's not that they have to have some merits to get it.
 We know that this salvation and this chosenness is given for free and God knew about this
 and he chose them, okay?
 While others, the pagans and non-Christians, they are not chosen by God and this is not
 their fault because they are not chosen, okay?
 So this is also not fair and people are not guilty of not being chosen, okay?
 Well this issue is a fake issue because in fact the Lord chooses only those who are able
 to do it.
 So we can make an analogy with the Old Testament.
 In the Old Testament the people of Israel were chosen.
 They were chosen to be the God bearers, okay?
 They were bringing the light of true faith to all other nations and they lived according
 to the law, they received the law, they preserved the law of God, the word of God, they were
 given the true scripture and true knowledge and true worship and they had all these treasures
 given to them by God because they were chosen.
 However despite the fact that they were chosen, well others, everybody is cared by God, God
 is bringing everybody to salvation but other nations they were not chosen, they were going
 other paths to this salvation.
 But the chosen people, also not all of them received Christ and became children of the
 kingdom of heaven and only a few of them, only a few of them really became Christians.
 However this new Israel, these few Christians, they brought the kingdom of God to all the
 nations and every nation was became able to enter into this heaven and a great multitude
 of people were drawn to salvation.
 That's why church became big and everywhere and in every country.
 So however this new Israel, now we're talking about new Israel, the church, those who are
 called by God and who are following Christ.
 First of all we need to remember this, that we are not just one religion, okay there are
 many religions, okay our religion is this, okay we believe these things and things, no
 we are the people who are chosen by God.
 We need to emphasize this and others unfortunately they are not chosen.
 So this is a big difference, this is a big critical difference and we need to know that
 we are chosen freely to have this faith and to follow Christ and to love him.
 However we need to value this chosenness, we have to treasure it as a precious gift
 and not just a case it's given to me freely by birth or by something else and so I'm Christian
 and I'm fine.
 No we need to know that this is a precious gift which some people lack, they don't have
 it.
 Okay and even though we have it, it also doesn't guarantee that we will enter into the kingdom
 of heaven in the same way as the old testament Israel, not all of them entered into new Israel
 but only a few.
 In the same way we as the chosen ones now chosen for this salvation and eternal life
 may be drawn astray and misled and brought to somewhere else okay and perish and not
 inherit eternal life.
 And this is the main goal of all the demons okay, they are trying hard to bring us somewhere
 else to make us go astray and lose this path and not follow Christ and not receive the
 true life in Christ in the kingdom of heaven.
 So this is why we need to really put a lot of effort and all our emphasis into this into
 pursuing this path, into realizing our chosenness, into making this happen.
 Okay so this is very important goal.
 In the same way as someone is chosen to say become Olympic okay champion or participate
 in Olympics okay he's chosen for that and maybe he's gonna go in a couple months but
 in during this couple months maybe he loses his shape and he's not going there or even
 if he goes there he loses okay and he doesn't become champion and all that chosenness has
 no value or later if you look at it yes you participated in this contest but you lost
 and now it doesn't mean anything it's just shame okay so it is important for us not just
 to be chosen it is important for us to reach the goal okay.
 So may the Lord give us this strength we remember that not believing in him puts us away completely
 because the Holy Spirit Christ said that I will send the Holy Spirit that he will tell
 the world about sin and righteousness and judgment about sin is that you don't believe
 in me in son of man this is the core sin okay for anyone okay this is the core sin that
 people don't believe in Christ and don't follow him they are staying in another religion or
 they formally say I'm Christian but they don't believe in Christ they don't follow him all
 of that is sin all of that leads people to perish to destruction they become not chosen
 at all they are not chosen okay so this is important not to be on that path abandon anything
 that has to do with that but be on this path of following Christ of living with him and
 of loving him may God help us on this path give us his strength motivation and let us
 receive the true salvation which is coming at the end of the world I mean.
