 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about children of disobedience, and what does
 it mean that all of us were, maybe still are, these children of disobedience, and we live
 in a spiritual desert.
 In Apostle Paul's epistle to the Ephesians chapter 2 verse 2 he says "In time past you
 lived according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the
 air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience".
 So he says that all of people, all people, used to be like that, all of us, and in the
 past before Christ's coming it was the whole humankind, everybody, were these children
 of disobedience.
 And we need to think about this deeply, because maybe we are still in disobedience to God.
 And as a matter of fact, every time we sin, every time we forget repentant heart, we become
 back children of disobedience.
 And we follow the will of this evil spirit, which is in the air.
 So what is important to remember is that this spirit is not just some evil spirit that is
 really ugly and lives in hell and only possesses some people, this spirit is everywhere, it
 is in the music that we hear in the radio very often, it is in the commercials that
 we listen to, it is in the way people speak sometimes, this special spirit that brings
 evil things, it brings evil associations, it brings lust, it brings desire to buy something.
 All advertisements are full of that spirit because they want to entice you to buy something
 and they try to prove that it is better than anything else and you cannot do without it.
 They want you to focus on something else, on what to eat, what to drink, what to buy,
 dress, and they really want to drag you away from God, from thinking about God.
 Just think about this world, what to do, what kind of vacation, how to enjoy, how to earn
 money, how to save money, they want you to completely be away from that, away from the
 path of God.
 In the time of the Old Testament, saints are telling us that at that time everybody was
 under the spirit, now we think, well it was such a nice time because people were close
 to nature and they were not as deceitful as now, they were more simple people, but actually
 even from that time the situation was quite bad because all of them, all pagans and even
 the people of Israel, all of them were under the influence of this evil spirit, this prince
 of air, prince of this world, and especially pagans, they were completely dragged into
 that kind of lifestyle.
 But people of Israel, they were trying to get on the right path because they had the
 name of God and they had the law of God that God gave them.
 But even with that, very often they drifted away from righteousness and we had prophets
 who were calling them to come back because they were dragged by that spirit, spirit of
 this world.
 And this spirit is in enmity with God and this is why all of us, all people are called
 children of disobedience.
 We disobey God, we do what God hates and he doesn't like, but we like it and we do that.
 We're against him, our will is going in different direction.
 So it is very easy and very fast for us to be dragged into that unless we have a special
 training and special vaccine and we are very vigilant in walking in the right way.
 This is why Christ is emphasizing, be vigilant and don't sleep, not to enter into temptation.
 Because this temptation and the sin that follows after it, they grasp us right away as soon
 as we forget about the true direction.
 So for us, if we really want to follow Christ, we need to be aware of that.
 We cannot just relax and sort of walk around.
 We remember Apostle Paul is saying that you need to run.
 If you run, if you walk in the right direction, then it's difficult to sort of drag you away.
 But if you sort of walk around or sit around, it is much easier for you to forget what's
 the direction.
 Where am I going?
 So this is very important and it is important to remember that this world is very often
 portrayed as a desert, spiritual desert, because nobody is bringing fruit for God.
 And in the desert, also people are walking in the desert, they don't have true food,
 true drinks, and they are walking, wandering around, because they don't know the direction.
 It's very big, the desert is big, it's huge.
 And the wind very often blows strongly in the desert and people are walking where the
 wind is blowing.
 Today is blowing that way, tomorrow that way.
 This is the way the world lives.
 This is the way most of us live, where the wind blows and we are in this desert.
 But the Lord wants us to create oasis with his help.
 He will help us to be immune from all that stuff.
 To have fruits and plants growing and blooming.
 And he wants us to be in comfort and to be free and to have spiritual celebration and
 not to have this suffering all the time.
 So let us remember that, let us create this oasis.
 We cut away all these things which sort of try to drag us into some wrong direction.
 And we need to feel, is there Christ?
 Because it's only by the name of Christ, through the name of Christ, that we can gain this
 power to avoid all of that stuff.
 Unfortunately, many people heard about Christ and they know the Bible.
 They heard about it, but they don't know what's the true church.
 They don't know that it is in the Holy Communion that they can receive Christ himself, his
 body and his blood and to have health of their souls, recovery and true faith and true wisdom
 coming directly from Christ.
 So let us be aware of that.
 Let us put this the first priority, the utmost priority and to do what Christ wants, to become
 children of Christ and not children of disobedience.
 May Lord help us and give us his blessing, Amen.
