 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about time and this topic is
 bringing us to the meaning of life and into the issue that we have now that
 people are losing meaning over their lives because people don't understand
 what is the purpose of days that they go through. For some people these days
 are full of activities but they understand that all of that is
 meaningless because it's gonna end. For other people days are boring because
 every day is the same maybe they don't have anything to do and their life also
 becomes miserable. And for us Christians we also have some risks. There are two
 main risks. The one is that we are too superficial. Most people are like
 that. We are caring about today's activities, what to do, where to go.
 And we are not thinking about God, about eternity. This is why
 many people went to become monks and they spent time in silence not saying
 anything. It's very much important in monastic
 ascetic life to be able to settle down, to look into your heart, to talk to God,
 to hear his response, to come closer to eternity so that the seed of faith can
 grow in our hearts. However this brings us to another risk. This brings us to
 another risk of stressing eternity and absolute and basically
 neglecting this life. Every day just just goes and this material world it
 perishes, it has no value and this brings us to another temptation, a very big
 temptation of escaping from this world. But our Lord, he did not escape
 from this world. He came and he ministered and every day of his ministry
 was of very great importance. And this is how we should be. We should nurture this
 root in our heart. And when having this root, being rooted in eternity in
 the Word of God, we see this eternity and this beauty of God in every moment of
 our life and in everything that surrounds us. This is what the Lord wants
 us to learn so that we can see everything in this prism of eternity.
 Okay, this is a little bit abstract. Now let me give you some examples. Very
 often we can look at the photos, photos of our relatives which look
 different. Okay, it's maybe 10, 20 years old and photo and people are different,
 they change. We can see that life changes. Okay, after 10 years, 30 years people look
 different. Okay, children grow up, older people get older and we can see
 that it's transitive. The whole life is very limited, very short. We receive news
 that somebody died every day. And also when we meet people whom we haven't
 met for a long time, we can see that they changed. So this is a
 reminder for us that the life is not that simple. It's not just where you go
 today, the time passes. And we have to value every day and get as much
 as possible spiritually from this time that is passing on. Okay, and we need to
 go against time because now the time is making people feel that yesterday
 history is not important. It's what's happening now. Okay, this social media.
 Okay, now what's happening with somebody? Okay, some something fresh, new pictures.
 Okay, this actually comes from, originally this comes from God. Okay, because God
 himself, he is eternal but he is ever-changing. He is life, life itself.
 Okay, and life is always new. It's always renewing itself. So he never becomes
 boring. Okay, and this willingness to get something new is normal, is good.
 People are created by God's image. However, we are separated from God and
 many of our characteristics, many of our demands that our soul has are
 distorted. And we become like that. We only care what's news, today what
 happened. Okay, whatever was like three years ago, even three days ago, we don't
 care anymore. Okay, our history is cut out. Okay, we need to learn this
 willingness to gain the whole picture. And the whole picture includes
 history, it includes eternity. And when we communicate with someone, our relatives
 say we need to see the whole personality, which includes past and even future. Okay,
 we can see in this person. And this becomes much richer experience. And the
 place where we leave our house or the town where we live, it also includes
 the history where when we met someone here and we had some experience in childhood.
 And all that enriches our appreciation, our understanding of this place. Okay, so
 it gains like another dimension. Okay, and that's why when we go into some
 place or we experience something, we gain much fuller experience, much richer
 spiritual experience and appreciation. And we need to recover this in ourselves.
 Because the modern world, modern lifestyle cuts all of that. Okay, it
 tries to destroy any history, anything which is valuable, which
 transcends time. Okay, just changes all the time. So we need to be different. Okay,
 otherwise our life will be miserable. Our spiritual life will be depleted. Okay, we
 are called by God to have this rich experience of every day. Okay, for us also
 every day is like many years. Okay, because it includes a lot of spiritual
 and transcending time, experiences and knowledge. So these are some examples and
 we need to value our life, our days. Okay, every day that we have as a last day.
 Okay, people whom we meet, we need to really value them. Okay, because
 everything is very much valuable. Eternity comes upon every moment of
 existence. Let us learn from our Lord how to have this kind of heart, how to
 perceive things like this, to have our spiritual eyes opened. Okay, this is
 what's very important and the Lord will give us his wisdom. He will give us this
 deep and healthy heart that can treat reality in the right way and not to have
 this later gay pity that gay time is wasted. Five, ten years passed and nothing
 changed, nothing improved, so that we don't have anything like that. That we are
 writing our life and not as a, you know, as a draft but already every day is
 written like a poem. Okay, which doesn't need to be rewritten again. Okay, may God
 help us and give us such mind and such heart, I mean.
