 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about the results of our life, fruits of our life.
 Because sometimes when we believe in God, we don't really understand how my values, my goals should change.
 And very often people believe in Christ, however their life is exactly the same as it used to be before that.
 They have the same goals for their life and the same way of life and pretty much everything stays the same.
 Maybe some little extras, sometimes they go to church, sometimes they do something, but overall it's all the same.
 Well, this is a very big risk that we have to avoid.
 We see that humans, they need some kind of goal and they need some kind of measurement, how they can measure results of their work, of their life.
 Do they reach these goals? Do they meet these aims? Do they have any achievement?
 We were talking about successful person, not successful person.
 So what is that standard of success that we as Christians need to be aware of and always check?
 Do I have any progress? Do I have any fruits in my life that the Lord is expecting from me?
 We see that for economy, for the country, it's important to grow, the GDP has to grow, production volumes, assets have to increase.
 And these are the goals of, say, economy as it's considered.
 For a company, same. They need profit, increase operations, new markets, they need some kind of increase.
 For every individual person, very often things like money, savings, salary has to grow, my career has to go up, my quality of life has to increase.
 Say, I need to have better things, better house, better car. This is the product of my life.
 This is what I am dedicated to. This is what I want to have more and more as a result of my daily efforts.
 And all of these things are pretty much irrelevant for Christ.
 Because he said that when the Son of Man will come on earth, meaning during the time of second coming, will he find any faith on the earth?
 And this exclamation of our Lord tells us that there will be very little faith, very little faith on earth.
 And what is faith? Faith is not belief in something.
 Belief in Christ, belief in aliens. Faith is something that is changing our heart, changing our life, changing our mind.
 Faith has to bring some change. If it doesn't, it's not faith.
 If it's just some kind of belief that I think that's true, no, this is nothing.
 What is important is that faith as a seed brings change.
 And the Lord will look at the society of that time and will think, OK, well, this society, is it different in any way from a society where there would be no Bible,
 no commandments, no people would know about Christ and church. Would it be just the same? So are people living just in the same way as they would if I would not come and they would not know anything about me?
 And if that's the case, well, there is no faith. There is no fruits of the faith.
 And this is the situation and this is the situation we are in right now.
 OK, we are in this spiritual desert because people are busy with any kind of thing but faith.
 OK, and people can talk about anything but faith.
 OK, they can talk about food, about music, about whatever, but not many people think, talk about faith.
 And this is why this is because they just want to live as though there is no God, there is no Christ, there is no commandments.
 We just live. We just have fun. We just eat and drink and OK, just like that.
 So this is the biggest risk and this is the biggest temptation that we have.
 So the results and products of our efforts have to be related with faith, increasing faith.
 And the amount by which the faith is increasing overall is the outcome, the GDP, the profit, the income that will be important for God.
 OK, this will be what he will value when he looks at us every day and when we die.
 OK, this is what he'll check, he'll care about.
 So let us talk more practically, because very often people believe in Christ, they don't know about this.
 They think, OK, we just build more churches or we just do something, some other projects.
 But we need to see does this project is related to increasing faith in yourself, make it stronger and in other people.
 OK, so let us see, there are two basic conditions that we need and that can make us bring more fruits.
 First one is we need to study the gospel and also lives of saints,
 people who already are in the heavens and their life brought them into heaven.
 Not their own efforts, but how the Lord worked in their life,
 how they were able to serve him and establish a relationship with him that made them able to enter the kingdom of heaven.
 OK, we can see exact concrete examples to understand better the gospel and what the gospel wants us to be like.
 Of course, another important prerequisite, so to say, is our participation in church life.
 OK, we are not just saved by ourselves, we are saved in the church.
 We are parts of the body of Christ and our involvement in church life, in divine liturgy, in holy sacraments.
 This is an important and absolute requirement for us to have the spiritual power and to be able to bring fruits in terms of increasing faith in our life.
 Well, the exact fruits of faith include, of course, prayer and fasting, because to pray we need to dedicate time for that.
 We need to force ourselves sometimes to go and pray.
 This is real fruit the Lord is saying.
 OK, now I get some output from this person in terms of faith.
 And, of course, fasting is when we limit our passions, our desires, and we subject our body and our mind to Christ.
 OK, we force ourselves to become better and stronger serving Christ, especially in the days of fasting.
 And the third important is our main business, so to say.
 OK, everybody has his job or his student, his studies.
 There is something that he is filling his life with, the main sort of thing that he does, his occupation.
 And this has to become the place of realizing faith.
 OK, whatever we do in our job, whether it's serving people or it's cleaning something or creating some product,
 all of that, we need to see that we are serving Christ by doing that.
 OK, it's not just for making profit, making money or career status, no, for service and ministry to Christ.
 And this has to become the content of our life, one of the important contents that we do.
 The fifth thing that we should put a lot of effort into is our communication with others.
 How do we communicate? Do we talk with them about anything but Christ?
 If we are prone to that, talk about food, travel, whatever, some shopping, politics.
 If we only are interested in talking about those topics, there is something wrong.
 There is something wrong with our faith.
 We need to be interested most and foremost in Christ and faith.
 OK, this doesn't mean that we need to be like fanatics, that we don't talk about anything else.
 But for us, the main interest and priority should be that.
 So many topics, many discussions will end up talking about faith and Christ if it's in your heart.
 OK, so this is what the Lord wants us to be like.
 And other people will be able to be kindled or be also attracted their way of thinking,
 not just about things of this world, but with Christ and what he brought.
 And this will increase faith in this world, which is so much desired by Christ.
 And the last thing which we can do and we should do is self-education about faith.
 We need to be interested to learn more, to read more about theology, church history, Christian morals.
 There are many things.
 We just need always to feed ourselves with some extra knowledge related to our faith in some way.
 And of course, this is not the most important.
 The gospel itself, which I mentioned in the beginning, the gospel is not optional.
 This has to become for us everything.
 We need to draw all kind of revelation, all kind of answers from gospel itself, from what Christ has said and done.
 And of course, our hobbies, what we do in our free time when we relax.
 It is better if they are somehow related to faith.
 Be it collecting something or making something in the garden, anything.
 If it's related somehow to Christ, to God, to faith, this will be much better.
 So let us think about this and let us bring more fruit to Christ every day.
 And being grateful that he gives us more opportunities.
 Every coming day, I'm coming, I'm going somewhere.
 The biggest risk right now, especially with this pandemic thing is that people don't understand where they go, what they do, what will happen in future.
 And people get crazy.
 We have to always know that we are moving in this direction and we are becoming stronger.
 We are becoming closer to Christ every day, every single day of our life.
 May Lord help us on this path, give us this heart and make us eager to increase these fruits.
 Eager to grow faith, to make it stronger, to make it bigger, to share it with others.
 May Lord help us and bless us.
