 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about conflicts and conflicting situations within the Church among Christians.
 We remember that even apostles had some conflicts. Apostle Peter, Apostle Paul, they had different visions about aspects, how to interact with Jews, Jewish Christians, and Gentile Christians.
 And, of course, there were numerous conflicts among holy fathers and other saints, and even people who were very close to God, even they had very different opinions about things.
 And we should not expect that somebody who is a Christian, or who is a priest, or who is even a bishop or patriarch, that whatever they say, this comes from God.
 Because all of us, we bring a lot of background from our childhood, from our education, our political views, all of that.
 And this brings very often these conflicts. And us, we are still very far from being saints or holy, and with us, it's even much more conflicts happening within the Church than we can expect.
 We hope that there would be peace and oneness of mind, but practically speaking, we don't have it very often.
 And a nice example is this conflict that happened in many countries now because of coronavirus.
 Some people, church people, they say we cannot close churches, others say we should close them, we need to care about people, and there are many conflicts coming out from this issue.
 And we need to be very wise. Because the first thing that we need to do whenever we see some kind of conflict or difference in opinions within the Church, the first thing we need to do is not to take any side.
 The first thing, because we are very passionate and we begin to quarrel, we want to say we like this idea more, this is in line with our vision.
 And then we get into this struggle or this conflict, this discussion, and the biggest problem is that.
 Because the devil wants to divide the Church, he wants to divide Christians that they fight with each other and they become weaker, and the Church as a whole cannot bring her testimony in the way it's supposed to be, in the way that can bring more people to the Church.
 So this is only making him happy. But as Christians, we need to learn to control our emotions, control our passions, not to have these changes, drastic changes.
 Today I have a nice mood, the weather is nice, I'm positive, tomorrow I have depression, I have some negative feelings, we need to be rooted in Christ.
 When we are rooted in Christ, in the Gospel, in the prayer, in the fasting, we will be much more stable.
 And this path is the path towards passion, passionless, to be without passions.
 And this doesn't contradict the expectation that we have a glowing faith, that we are not just cool and indifferent about things.
 Being passionless and being in apathy, this is a Greek concept, that you are not troubled by anything and you're always in the same mood.
 For us, we are not aiming to be indifferent, we are claiming, we are striving to be always stable and always sober, to be able to make the right decision in the Lord.
 So this is a very important principle. And another important principle is not to be too much reliant on somebody's opinion.
 Be it a theologian, be it some respectable priest or bishop or elder or patriarch, we always take many opinions, we think about them, we pray about them, if this is something important.
 We don't make statements unless we already have a feeling that something is in line with the Gospel.
 And even when we have some, we are persuaded that a certain opinion is correct and it's right. Still, for us, the much more important priority is to preserve peace within the Church.
 If we see two people struggling or more people struggling, the first thing for us, blessed are the peacemakers, not the United Nations, the peacemakers, those people who bring peace.
 And first and foremost, we need to have peace within the Church. So if there are different positions, people are struggling, we step back and we say, "Guys, just calm down, let us pray."
 When we pray, we put ourselves below God at least, because we pray to Him, we ask Him for help and wisdom. And this makes us more pleasing to God.
 God is pleased that we are not pushing through with our own agenda, with our egoism, with the vainglory that I know better, I'm smarter, I'm more spiritual. We put ourselves below, we pray to God, we ask for His guidance, His wisdom, and only after that we come back to the discussion.
 We need to study more, we need to know very thoroughly all the background of some issue, say this coronavirus thing. We need to go and research how did Holy Fathers and the Church as a whole in the history, how it dealt with similar situations.
 Only after a very thorough research, we can come back and we can talk about this issue. So let us be wise, let us be humble, and let us always be rooted in Christ.
 Let us be very eager in faith, but not fast into taking positions and pushing through with our own ideas, decisions, thoughts, preferences, and the Lord will help us, and His wisdom, His Spirit will be with us, I mean.
