 Dear brothers and sisters, today our topic will be somewhat mysterious. We will talk
 about the revelation of Saint Apostle John. Many people are saying, well, the last days
 are coming and the apocalypse is coming with these pandemics and with the world changing
 and many other things. People are worried and many people read revelation these days.
 However, I would suggest that only Christians who were very well trained or at least they
 read gospel and the pistols of pastels many times and are reading them every day and also
 praying every day and going to church for years. Only those people just directly read
 the revelation. Otherwise, you might receive some harm. If you just open the revelation,
 read it, you will misunderstand many things because this is a very special book. It is
 prophecy which is given as a revelation in visions, in symbols and it needs some training
 and some spiritual basis for us to read it unless you are very special. But I would not
 recommend doing this. So, if you would want to know more about this book, I would recommend
 to listen to Holy Fathers to read their interpretation and also other interpreters, people, the voice
 of the church and to gather different interpretations of this book and then think about it. But
 also if you are not very well established in your faith yet, it is best to put more
 effort into that and not to be obsessed about end of days and revelation and all those mysteries
 which are hidden in this book. And today we will talk about one of these mysteries. We
 will talk about chapter 6 verse 9. We begin here. "And when he had opened the fifth seal,
 I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the
 testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, 'How long, O Lord,
 holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?'
 And white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they
 should rest yet for a little season until their fellow servants also and their brethren
 that should be killed as they were should be fulfilled." Well, we don't have to understand
 this literally, but we need to think about this. And the meaning of these words is basically
 that there are two types of people. And if you are feeling that you are not one of them,
 you either are, but you don't know about it yet, or you will be very soon. And these two
 types of people, we can say they are spiritual descendants of Cain and Abel. Okay, there are
 two people, Cain killed Abel, two sons of Adam. So, first people are the ones who killed
 Christians, killed the servants of God, those martyrs. And they don't want Christianity.
 They don't want the justice and this testimony of truth. They want to live with sin and to
 be servants of the sin and mammon, money and everything else. They want this type of world.
 This world order that is completely run without God. Okay. And without God's providence, without
 righteousness, without Christian values, this post-Christian world, this is what they want.
 And it is not necessary to actually go and kill Christians. Okay. If you kill Christianity,
 if you close everything, okay, in the West, we see this post-Christian society. It's built.
 How come it's built? Because, well, where is Christianity? It is killed. It is being
 killed by these people. Okay. And we see in the Soviet Union, the same thing, but it was
 done by the Bolsheviks who just destroyed everybody who believed in God, priests and everything.
 Okay. They just demolished churches and they tried to have completely materialistic atheist
 society. Okay. These are the modern descendants of the people who've killed Christians. And
 this is being done. The new world order that people are talking about now is hopefully
 for them without Christianity, without true Christianity. Okay. There can be some kind
 of fake Christianity, maybe yes, but there will be no true message of repentance and
 true life according to the Holy commandments. Okay. So this is this choice that people make
 and that they want and they are craving for. Okay. And it will be less and less possible
 to say, Oh, well, I just leave. I don't touch anyone. I just live by myself, just earn my
 living. And well, I'm not killing anyone. I'm not against anything. I'm tolerant to everything.
 Okay. This will not be possible because eventually you will choose some way of life. You will
 be cleaning towards some lifestyle. Either it will be the lifestyle of these descendants
 of a kind or the other type of people, which will be very few. These are the servants of
 God. These are the people being killed. Those who are killed for the word of God, for their
 testimony, for their righteous life. And these people will be very few. And we will read
 in the apocalypses, in the revelation that at the end of times, most of humanity will
 belong to that first group, first type of people. And those punishments that will be
 coming, they will come because they don't want God. They don't want to repent. And that
 will be the situation. And it is almost now what we have now. Okay. And you will ask,
 well, if I believe Christ, if I really want to follow him, so I will have to be killed
 because it's sad that those will be killed and not necessarily, but we're killing ourselves
 every day. Our old man, we're killing our passions and our daily life is like martyrdom
 extended over a long period of time. So this is what we do. Okay. This makes us heirs and
 co-servants, fellow servants of those Christians who were killed and that were asking Lord
 that question. And how long will you endure all that people have done? They killed us
 and they live on this newly built world. Okay. The world which is built upon killing Christianity,
 upon killing Christians, be it the West or Soviet Union and anywhere in pagan countries.
 It is becoming also like that, that people choose the way that they don't need Christ
 and they refuse him and they kill him. Okay. So this is not only talking about Christian
 countries, any country, all the world. So let us be mindful of that. Let us know that
 the time of harvest is coming. Okay. When time of harvest is coming, things become more
 and more ripe, more and more clear. Okay. And this refusal of Christ, of living with
 Christ will be more and more evident. Okay. In this world. So let us be ready for that.
 Let us love Christ, serve him with sacrificing our hearts for other people and becoming stronger
 spiritually day by day. May Lord help you and bless you. Amen.
