 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about the devil and his methods.
 We don't speak about him too often because what we preach is Christ and his love.
 But even in the gospel and in the other books of the Holy Scripture we read about the devil
 quite often.
 We read that he is the ancient snake that is putting people in temptation, that is putting
 people, that is deceiving, deceiving people, nations, whole nations are deceived by him.
 And the Apostle Paul is also saying that we know plans of the devil.
 So as Christians we need to know at least how he is working, what is his methods.
 And we also see from the prayer, the glorious prayer, that lead us not into temptation but
 deliver us from the evil one.
 Christ is telling us to pray that we are not led into temptation, that we are delivered
 from the devil.
 So this is of very big importance and now many people think there is no devil, there
 is no demons, it is just my psychology.
 But this is very dangerous because if we don't know our enemy, he will win.
 So we need to know him.
 We are not afraid of him, we are not worried too much about him, but we are not obsessed
 about this thing.
 But we need to be aware and we need to have the knowledge.
 And what I want to say today is I call it the roulette of devil, devil's roulette.
 And this roulette, why I call it roulette?
 Because in the roulette very often something that seems to be that you are winning, actually
 you are losing, it is very close.
 From winning everything to losing everything is really close, looks almost the same.
 And also very often the opposite thing comes to you because it is rotating.
 So we can call it roulette, devil's roulette.
 Why?
 Because something that seems to be right and good is actually wrong and brings great harm
 to you, and you lose.
 And one good example is that say you have a family, you have a spouse, you love him
 or her, but somebody will tell you, you see there are other women, you need to love them,
 you cannot hate people, you need to love people, so you go and you have a relationship with
 all those women.
 And this is love.
 But we know that this is called adultery and fornication.
 And by doing this we destroy true love between us and our spouse.
 And we commit a mortal sin that brings us to hell and to domination.
 And it is harmful for our soul, for our life, for everything.
 We become spoiled, we become filthy, we become all kinds of... we lose, we lose.
 But it seems to be that it is love, it is not hate.
 Because of hatred you go and do this, you love, you like some girls and things.
 So this is how it works.
 Something that seems to be good and beneficial and nice is actually the opposite, it's coming
 from devil and it's fake.
 So what other examples we see?
 We see this example of liberalism, that people say freedom, freedom, but eventually if you
 don't agree with some idea of this so-called liberalism, you are marginalized or you are
 even put to prison.
 So for example, talking about human rights brings eventually to this sodomia, this legalizing
 those things and destroying the concept of family.
 Even though the majority of people, they believe that family is man and woman, but their opinion
 is wrong.
 It's only like a small group of people, they say this is wrong idea and we have to impose
 and force everybody to believe what we think is true.
 So their rights are ignored, all these people's rights.
 So it seems to be like freedom and human rights, but in reality it brings what?
 It brings fascism and it brings totalitarian control and censure.
 So this is another example.
 Another example is ecumenism, what we have now.
 You need to love all religions and you have to be tolerant and stuff.
 But you betray your own, eventually you are called to pray with everybody, to do everything
 together and to agree that it's not only one savior, there are many ways.
 So you betray your own faith in Christ, eventually you betray the body of Christ which is the
 church which he established.
 Your understanding is blurred and you are dragged away.
 So this seems to be love and toleration, but eventually this is betraying Christ and this
 is against love.
 So it seems to be love, but it's not.
 And similar things, educating a child, you are told now that you need to give him as
 much freedom, as much candies, as much whatever he wants, you need to love him and give stuff
 to him as much as possible.
 Then you spoil him.
 And it's not love, it's harmful to him, even though it seems to be love.
 But people that don't have this educational mind, that he has to be limited in some things,
 there are some harmful vices that are in this kid and you need to work with these vices
 that he can get rid of them.
 He needs to obey elders and he needs to learn not to be selfish and other things.
 So this is another good example.
 We see this example that now it's a society of consumerism, people need to consume more,
 the stores are full of stuff and now it's a wealthy world.
 But eventually this consumerist mindset brings the greatest scarcity because people now they
 need this, this, this, this to maintain their households, to be up to date in their phones
 and everything, and people don't have enough money and they're losing job, they're afraid
 to lose their job, they do any kind of job.
 This is the greatest pressure that is put on everyone, this economical slavery that
 it brings with it.
 So it seems to be one thing, but at the end it's exact opposite.
 So we also now hear that people need to unite and globalization and it's good when people
 unite but if they unite on this materialistic concept that we just need to bring benefit
 to each other and other person is just benefit for you or harm for you.
 And that brings people together, one economy and one thing.
 This is Babylon.
 This is building one Babylon tower of Babel.
 And eventually we see that in modern society, even though it's globalizing, people become
 more and more separated from each other, they become more and more afraid of coming close
 to other people, because maybe they will harm you and whatever, whatever, we're just business,
 nothing personal, just business.
 This is the mindset that is coming with this.
 So it seems to be that it's uniting, but actually it's separating people, exactly the same thing.
 So let us be mindful of this, that sometimes he cannot bring something outright wrong and
 bad and evil because most people, they don't receive it.
 They don't, when they see something evil, they don't want it.
 So he's trying to wrap it in a very nice package and make you eat it.
 And so that you get into this trap.
 And this is what we're asking Lord, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the
 evil one.
 May Lord help you distinguish what is devil's trap, what is really coming from God and what
 is his deception and will bring misery, suffering and eternal death.
 May Lord bless every one of you and help you make this distinction.
 Amen.
