 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to invite you to think about one issue.
 I will not provide straightforward answers, I want all of us to think about where we are
 as a human kind.
 This year we experienced this pandemic we're still experiencing and we see that all things
 that we thought that are given like the air flights, like hospitals, it's now gone, almost
 gone.
 Many places hospitals are too full, people cannot go to hospital because of that thing
 and they have to treat and get treatment at home and many other things, schooling.
 We can see that things can get much worse than they used to be.
 It's not just a cycle, economical cycle, it's not even depression, economic depression,
 maybe it's worse.
 Most of us we haven't experienced, neither the Great Depression, neither the World War
 II nor some like big crisis, worldwide crisis like that.
 So today we have this opportunity to think about what it is and what it means and what
 it can lead us to.
 Today we also have some people expect that things will get worse, that this first virus
 will be nothing compared to computer virus that may come any time and everything will
 be just collapsed, all systems.
 It's nothing compared to war, if we have another world war it will be even worse.
 So there can be things, now we can at least imagine how it's like, that it's involving
 everyone and it's very bad, things are getting really bad.
 So it's not that I want to scare anyone but I want us to think about this because Christ
 himself he was talking about all kinds of disasters and wars and that was for a purpose.
 So the thing is the civilization as we know it, to be civilized, to have developed technology,
 communication, economy, all these things, it is a question whether it's a benefit, it's
 something good or not necessarily.
 And we know that people very often say, okay church is retrograde, it's bringing us to
 Middle Ages and things like that and we need progress, we need to be modern and stuff.
 And this is not true because church is preaching development, human development of every type.
 That we need to be more educated, the church was always promoting education, well at least
 Orthodox church, Christian church was always promoting education and literacy and all kinds
 of sciences that is always very much supported by the church and all this development, technological
 development, research.
 So the church has nothing against it and moreover it's very much promoting it.
 However there are also things that in this civilized world that we need to be thinking
 about.
 For example, as a missionary, when I go to some developed country, Europe, Americas,
 even Mexico, we've tried to do mission and it's not very effective.
 Not many people are interested in talking about religion, in praying, in eternal life
 and kingdom of heaven, even when you talk to people, not that many people are really
 interested.
 They're more interested in comfortable life, in business, in entertainment, in healthy
 food and all that stuff.
 But when we go to some developing countries like Philippines, Papua New Guinea and Africa,
 then we have a really large amount of people who are willing to listen to the word of God.
 It is not because they want your money, of course we have that also, but it's not that
 much.
 Most people are interested in faith, even though they don't have anything, no property,
 no savings, nothing, but they are willing to spend a lot of money talking about faith,
 praying, going to church, doing mission work.
 And this is very encouraging.
 And we are thinking, why is it so?
 We're thinking, what makes those people are more prone to religious and spiritual life?
 Because we can draw some conclusions from that.
 And we can see that it was similar actually in the times of early church, because those
 who persecuted the church, it was mainly Romans, especially the educated and noble and civilized,
 the elite, those who knew a lot of stuff, intellectuals, and similar things with the
 Jews.
 They also persecuted, especially those who were more educated, those scribes and Pharisees
 and priests, they persecuted Christianity.
 And those were the most civilized and educated people of the time.
 And why is that so?
 Why is there some kind of hostility with Christian message, Christian sermon, Christian good
 news, the gospel, as we say.
 The big problem is Paul himself is telling us that knowledge makes you arrogant, brings
 pride.
 And people who think that they are knowledgeable, that they're developed, that they are high
 class, they are educated, they give you only answers.
 They don't want to, of course, not everybody.
 This is just a very rough generalization.
 This is telling us what is dangerous in education and in this social development of society.
 What is dangerous?
 What risks are they?
 And also this might indicate those reasons why God can allow such disasters to happen.
 Something collapses or a war breaks out or something else, a revolution.
 That may be one of the reasons that people are saturated with all kinds of stuff and
 there is no place for God in their hearts.
 And this brings disaster.
 This brings big tribulations and all of that is just destroyed.
 Of course, we don't promote a barbarian wild life.
 We're not promoting it because most of the time, what is it like?
 It's like if you live just by so-called nature, it won't be nature.
 It will be much worse.
 It will be your old self, sinful, perverted beast coming out and that's why all those
 barbarian societies that we saw in the past and we see sometimes now in those movies,
 anti-utopian movies, post-apocalyptic life, that it's like really a barbarian life and
 it becomes really cruel.
 There is no loss.
 Only the strongest he wins, who has power, might.
 Only yourself is important.
 People become also very much selfish and they become like wild animals.
 No human life is not important.
 That's why we have all those people killing each other and relatives killing each other
 and all kinds of stuff.
 That's why church never promotes this lack of civilization, lack of laws, this anarchy.
 We never promote it.
 But we need to ask one question.
 That a civilization without spirituality, without God, without moral values, is it worse
 or is it better?
 I think it is worse.
 Most likely.
 It is worse than even this animal life, all this beast, demon-like life.
 Why?
 Because if you have no God but you are developed, this is like a crazy man with a nuclear bomb.
 This is why we don't give knife to a child.
 He will cut himself.
 This is why there is this big risk that people will misuse it.
 We see that in our world which becomes more and more fake because of that civilized way
 of cheating other people.
 You obey the laws but you make people suffer, you exploit them.
 It becomes also super selfish, even more selfish because you just see everybody else as a source
 of gain and it is very atomized.
 Our society now is very much atomized.
 And also it becomes very proud, very much proud and arrogant.
 So these are the biggest risks that I see and why we might end up having other big disasters
 coming.
 It will not be the will of God to bring about all those things but it will be allowed by
 God.
 If we don't change, if we don't change on both individual level, us and also as a society
 that will come and it will get worse.
 So we need to be ready for anything.
 No matter what happens we need to learn to be with Christ and that is most important.
 With that we will not be afraid of anything and we will ask him for his wisdom, for his
 guidance and we need to learn lessons of the past.
 We need to learn, use this pandemic as a lesson for us to think deeper who we are, where do
 we go and what we can do to avoid things getting worse.
 So may the Lord help us, give us his wisdom and love to pray, to do more things for him.
 He is expecting us to put more effort into spiritual life.
 May God help you and that will preserve us as a civilization, it will let us have a higher
 level of economic development and all other kinds of development.
 May God help us and bless every one of you.
