 Dear brothers and sisters, today is most likely the last video in this year, the year 2020,
 and it is a good time for us to review our life, to draw some conclusions, what we have
 done, what the Lord gave us during this past year, both good and bad, and thank you for
 all of that, and to think where we are at and where we are going.
 And we will discover, if we think about what is happening in the world, in the Church,
 we will see that we are receiving hits from the devil, one after another, this pandemic
 and many other things, the society is weak, it's demoralized, people are tired of everything
 because of these pandemics, they are depressed, many people lose patience, and others, they
 got relaxed, no work, no studies, and they will not want to go back to work, to studies
 as they used to, so there are many problems, social problems, and the Church is also receiving
 hits, it's blamed that it is against humanity, it's not complying with those measures, and
 there is turmoil within the Church, there are splits, there is all kinds of problems,
 and it might get even worse next year.
 So this is happening why all of those things are happening, because we are weak ourselves,
 spiritually we are weak, and the normal mindset right now is that we just enjoy this life,
 we spend our time in the way that brings most utility, most pleasure to us, but this is
 not the Christian way of looking at things.
 The Christian way is to see ourselves as ministers, as soldiers of Christ, and as soldiers we
 need to have very high demand ourselves, many things, we need to be very self-critical and
 self-disciplined, and we need to set the goal, that 80% of time, of my effort, my energy
 I spend in something that is directly serving God, it may be prayer, labor, self-education,
 reading the holy scriptures, reading the holy fathers, some research or writing something,
 and maybe 20% is I relax, also relax in a good way, in the Christian way.
 So this 80% is something that is not that pleasant.
 When we are going to gym, train ourselves, it's not that pleasant, we get tired, we experience
 all of that, and when we study we know very often we need to learn, 90% of what we learn
 is not that enjoyable, we don't really enjoy it, but we know we have to do it.
 So this 80%, pretty much we don't need to expect that we will get some pleasure out
 of this.
 And this is important, during this time of pandemic when people spend all day at home,
 they have a lot of leisure time, they become very weak spiritually, and this is what the
 devil wants.
 And when we are weak like that, he is hitting us one after another, and we are just sort
 of protecting, reacting, and we don't have any spiritual power to attack, to chase him
 away.
 And this is what Christ is waiting for every one of us, that we become spiritually strong
 and become soldiers.
 And today I want to invite Apostle Paul to say much better than I would say it.
 So let us go through, this is Ephesians chapter 6 verse 10, 10 to 19.
 And I will comment, or read and comment.
 "Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might, put on the
 whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil."
 This is what we need to set our goal for the next year, that we stand against anything
 what the devil might bring, and not just stand against, we hit him, we chase him away.
 "For we wrestle, not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers,
 against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high
 places."
 Okay, this is actually not very good translation, against the spirits that are in the air, those
 evil spirits.
 We are waging war against them, this is what our war is against.
 It's all kinds of spirits, spirit of laziness, spirit of fear, all kinds of spirits.
 We are chasing them away, our war is against that.
 "Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand
 the evil day, and having done all to stand," to win, having gone through all issues, all
 problems, win, okay, be there, don't break, "stand therefore, having your loins girt about
 with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness."
 We need to aim for righteous life, that we have no blemish, nothing that is staining
 us, in our behavior, in our mindset, in our hearts, in our words, no blemish, and we then
 will have this power, okay, "breastplate," this is our breastplate, "and your feet shot
 with the preparation of the gospel of peace," okay, we are ready to preach the gospel anytime,
 anywhere, to anyone, okay.
 "Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery
 darts of the wicked," the shield of faith, our faith is greatest power, it's not I believe
 in something, no, it's a super power that is shielding away all kinds of temptations,
 tribulations, trials, whatever, "and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the
 wicked," which is the word of God, okay, the word of God, we need to study the divine work
 every day, have our heart in the gospel, in the scripture, this is our goal, and we don't
 need to wait, okay, some special, some special feeling, "okay, now I feel like reading gospel,
 oh now I feel like," this will never come, our old man is always willing to be relaxed,
 to be out, okay, to have no fruit of faith, and he will bring all kinds of justification
 for that, so we not need, we just don't, I just do it, okay, like the soldier, the disciplined
 soldier just goes, he just goes and does it, because this is the, he knows that he's supposed
 to do that, okay, this is his, he ought to do it, okay, his responsibility, our responsibility
 as Christians is to take upon ourselves all those ministries, and we're not waiting for
 special conditions, "oh, I will have time after I finish all my things, then maybe I
 see it," and then, no, we just know, we have some discipline, okay, every day I do this,
 this, this, I'm supposed to do this, this is my goal, my spiritual rule, and whatever
 I have extra for, to chat with somebody or to watch something, okay, this will be in
 those 20%, okay, not more, it's not all day, I'm just, you know, like that, okay, let us
 be like that, let us enter into this new year with this spirit to fight, to stand, to become
 firmer and firmer in truth, and the Lord will give us his blessing, and he will give us
 his grace, I mean.
