 Dear brothers and sisters, we have entered the new year and this is a good opportunity
 for us to renew our spiritual life.
 When somebody wants to renew his life, sometimes he needs some external motivation.
 He can change his setting in his house, he can cut his hair, new life begins.
 We need to renew our spiritual life.
 Why do we need to renew our life?
 We need to use this new year feeling, new opportunities, new goals and we set our new
 goals, spiritual goals.
 Why do we need to set them?
 What is wrong with what we have now?
 Let us read Revelation, Revelation chapter 2, in this book, the Lord Jesus Christ, he
 is telling Saint Apostle John to write to different angels of seven churches, seven angels of
 seven churches, and they represent the whole church, so we can learn from these messages
 something very important to every one of us.
 What does he write to the first church of Ephesus?
 This is what we are going to take a look.
 He says, "And to the angel of the church of Ephesus write, 'You have borne and have had
 patience, and for my name's sake has labored and has not fainted; nevertheless, I have
 somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love; remember therefore from whence
 thou have fallen, and repent, and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly
 and will remove thy candlestick out of its place except thou repent, unless you repent.'"
 So if you stay the way you are, and you left your first love, you don't have that drive,
 you don't have that eagerness to serve the Lord.
 And this is what we have now, what we have external, we emphasize the external things.
 What time we have some celebration, what time we have this and that, and how do we decorate
 our churches and other things.
 These external things that show that we are not eager, we lost the true love towards Christ.
 And this is what he is telling to the church of Ephesus, and to every one of us.
 And if we don't go back, and go back where?
 To the times of the apostles, to the times of the early church.
 This is a great example for us, how the church loved God, sacrificed their life, sacrificed
 all their property, sacrificed all their time for ministry, for prayer, for serving others,
 being completely selfless, and what we have now.
 Now we have selfishness, own interest, everybody is busy with his own stuff, and many, many
 other things.
 And this is not the way it's supposed to be.
 And if we don't repent, and don't go back, and don't leave as we're supposed to leave,
 loving Christ with all our heart, our candlestick will be moved away.
 What does a candlestick stand?
 What does it mean?
 It means that we will lose the blessing of the Lord.
 We will lose his help, and support, and guidance.
 And we will be even worse than pagans who don't yet know Christ, but we've known him,
 and we've left him.
 And this is the worst there can be, okay?
 So let us think deeply about these words, and let us try to put much more effort into a
 spiritual life.
 And today I also want to say about all this negative influence that we can get, and that
 we need to influence the world, not the world influences us, okay?
 In the Old Testament times, the chosen people of Israel, they were protected by God, and
 they were told not to communicate with other nations, with pagans, even talking with them
 was forbidden.
 If you talk to him, or you touch him, or you are unclean, okay, you are unclean.
 If you marry him, okay, then you're out, you're not part of the chosen people anymore.
 So it was very strict.
 And it was at that time when people were much more simple than now, okay?
 They lived in natural society, and there was no this crazy stuff that we have now, okay?
 The way people dress, live, and talk, and all that, that was so much crazy stuff is
 going on.
 And all of that is spiritual garbage, okay, basically.
 And why the Lord didn't send Israel to everywhere, he was protected very much.
 And the reason for that was that it was not yet strong enough.
 Even though we read that some heroes of the Old Testament, they even conquered countries
 and chased away armies of foreigners, of aliens.
 And so they had quite a strong faith, but even they were not strong enough spiritually,
 they were not mature enough to be able to witness, to do the testimony about one God
 to everyone and communicate with them.
 So this means that when the church was created and was given this blessing to go to every
 country and to spread the word of gospel, it received such immense power to be able to
 do that, not to absorb all this filthiness of this world, but rather to change this world
 to make it gain life and gain this light of Christ.
 It had to have this great spiritual power that was given to it, and this was conditional
 upon this love that the church had to Christ, willingness to sacrifice itself.
 And this is what we need, and it's not optional, okay, we see that the Lord will take away
 his blessing, his grace, if we don't do that, if we don't live like that.
 We have to be the same in our eagerness as the early church, as the first church, and
 not put any lower standard for our spiritual life.
 So let us think about this very deeply and make some adjustment, and if we don't have
 that yet, we need to at least protect ourselves from all this garbage that is coming spiritually.
 Because the church of Christ here in Revelation is very often imaged as an unblemished bride
 of Christ, without any filthiness, without any stain, and this is the way the soul of
 every Christian has to be, and the whole church has to be like that, okay?
 So if we still have some moral problems or some other conceptual problems, have some
 wrong things in relationship with people, all of that has to be changed.
 All of that has to be cleaned away, okay, just unrooted and thrown away, whatever we
 still have in our life that's blocking God and his grace and his blessing.
 So let us aim for that, to have this unblemished, unstained soul, and to receive this mighty
 support of the Lord that will be with us, will guide us, give us this, okay, and the
 bravery and eagerness to speak what he wants us to speak and do this testimony.
 So let us also help our other people, okay, they are in their maybe religious communities
 in some sect, or maybe they are in their, it's also like those pools, okay, it's like
 a pool that has its water and it's dirty, but the people don't feel it because they
 swim there every day, okay?
 So now everyone, okay, almost everyone is in some kind of pool like that, maybe in some
 internet thing, in some chat, okay, is completely involved and immersed in that.
 And if we are with Christ, we should be able to help him get out, to help him find out
 that that pool is a filthy one, okay, and you need to find a different source of inspiration,
 of light, of power than whatever you're doing and you're having there, okay?
 So let us have this knowledge, this dariness, okay, dare to do that and to beginning from
 ourselves to renew this world in this new year.
 And may the Lord help you and give you his blessing, amen.
