 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about world view.
 Because now most people don't have a world view.
 Modern education is breaking all traditional world views.
 It breaks even this modern, like communist or whatever world views.
 And it doesn't give another one.
 Another world will come.
 The world view of Antichrist, but not yet.
 So now we have this broken situation when everyone is very atomized and every person
 is only caring how something that happens in the world can influence my life.
 My business, my income, my family, my security.
 And this is not a world view, this is not.
 What is a world view?
 A world view is when somebody is ready to die for something pertaining to this world
 view.
 So in the past we had a situation that people were willing to die for their homeland, for
 their values.
 Some people would die for some revolutionary values, a new world or whatever.
 They were ready to die for that.
 But now people are not ready to die for it, the majority of people, they are not willing
 to die for those things.
 So even when we see something like a world view being portrayed to us through TV or
 through something, a democracy or something else, this is not really a world view.
 This is more like a picture, it's more like a fake.
 The world now is very fake.
 The world view that is portrayed to us through media is basically fake.
 The government is pretty much fake.
 That's why so many actors, now it becomes like a drama.
 You need to perform to show why something happened, but it's already happened because
 somebody else has made a decision.
 But you play as though you're the politician and you sort of try to present it to the public.
 Not always, but very often.
 The opposition is fake opposition.
 Now we have people who sort of criticize, but they don't criticize the main problems
 of the government and they make the life of the so-called government.
 It's a fake opposition and fake government.
 So it's all a show that we see.
 So if we want to see the reality, we need to get involved in something.
 We need to have some first-hand experience if we really want to see what's happening
 behind these curtains.
 But not many people have that opportunity, not many people want to get involved in that
 kind of stuff which might be dangerous.
 So that's why very often we don't know what's the reality.
 And even if we knew the reality, we need to have a very strong worldview to fit that reality,
 that piece of a puzzle that we get into some worldview.
 And the task is to gain the worldview of a Christian, which is also not that easy.
 And how do we gain this worldview?
 The worldview presented to us by the Holy Scripture is the one which we should have.
 And this worldview can be seen in two parts.
 The first part is the Old Testament.
 And this is a preparation for the New Israel, for the New Testament, for the church.
 And we can learn from both.
 We can learn from the Old Testament, any book of the Old Testament, but the one which is
 summarizing the view on history, on what's happening in the world, is Deuteronomy.
 And the main message from Deuteronomy that we get is that when the people of Israel get
 far from God, they worship idols or they live in some wrong way of life, they are punished
 by God.
 And when they repent and come back and are serious about their faith, they get the blessing
 and God is helping them.
 And this is true, until now, this works, this principle is working.
 But what is important now is that for the...
 What is the characteristic of the worldview of the Bible?
 The characteristic is that it is from the perspective of the Holy Spirit.
 This is a perspective not of humans, but of God himself.
 And also, of course, it's for things that happened with this world for thousands of
 years.
 Okay.
 Old Testament, New Testament, thousands of years are all summarized.
 We get the big picture and this big picture is also, is from perspective of God.
 So this is the worldview that we need to learn and we need to have, adjust our mind to have
 that worldview.
 Okay.
 And today I won't be able to say everything about it.
 It's a big topic.
 But what I want to say is the fundamental characteristic of the Christian worldview.
 And this is the real worldview as it is.
 Okay.
 Because it is God's view on the world, on things that's happening.
 And this fundamental property is that the church, the new Israel, the bride of Christ
 is in the center of existence.
 Okay.
 In the center of the universe.
 Everything else is secondary.
 Okay.
 Everything else is conditional upon existence and experience of the church of Christ.
 Okay.
 So this is what is crucial for us.
 So we can abandon any other worldview that says, okay, democracy is the main goal.
 Other people say, no, it's the monarchy.
 Other people say that, okay, it's the great influence of one worldview or it's multiple
 worldview.
 All of that is political stuff.
 And it's not directly related to what we're talking about.
 Okay.
 Whether it's America willing something or China, Russia, Soviet Union, all of those
 things are secondary to Christian worldview.
 So as long as some country or some nation is contributing to the life of the bride of
 Christ is helping, is creating the right environment, cultural, social, economical for development
 of faith, of spiritual growth of Christians, of members of the body of Christ, then God
 is blessing.
 And that's why it's important, but not the other way around.
 Okay.
 So for example, it's not that the church has to help some country to become stronger.
 No, it is the church and it's spiritual, it's not how many buildings we have in or how many
 what's the increase in the budget of the church.
 No, it is the spiritual growth of the church that is able to fight with the devil and with
 all this evil in this world.
 This is what God cares.
 And this is in the center of the worldview.
 And for us, it's important to have this new Israel as united as possible, that we are
 praying for each other, that we are helping each other, that we feel how this big organism
 is living.
 Okay.
 What are the challenges, what are the threats and where are we going?
 We need to be one and very much united.
 As the Christians in the early times that they were gathering in some secret places, while
 others, those Roman soldiers, they were seeking and trying to find them and persecute them.
 But they were still keeping together.
 And no matter what, how much, how big is the danger, they would be all together.
 And this is also one of the goals of these videos that I'm making, to bring all people
 of God, all people who have love towards truth and that are seeking for truth, to be together,
 to be closer to each other and not to receive all kinds of other garbage and all that so-called
 education that is provided to us by the media.
 Even the journalism nowadays is not neutral.
 It's not as like 60 years ago when the news report just told you this and this and this.
 What has happened?
 Pretty much.
 Of course not a hundred percent, but it was much more objective and neutral than today.
 It's targeted at people who don't have their worldview, so that's why they need some kind
 of people to explain what this means and who is this good for or bad for or whatever.
 So we don't need to rely too much on news, TV and all that kind of stuff.
 And we need to have our own worldview.
 We need to educate ourselves.
 May the Lord help us and give us His blessing.
 Amen.
