 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas!
 We enter in this great feast of the church, and we will celebrate it for 10 days.
 And this is the second largest feast in the church, after the Pascha, after Easter.
 And it is also called Winter Pascha.
 This feast brings us the joy of greeting the Lord coming into this world.
 And we're white, and the whole church is using white color to represent this light that is
 brought by the Savior, the purity and the renewal that is coming to the earth.
 And during this time, we think deeply about the spiritual meaning of the Lord's coming,
 and we prepare ourselves to greet Him into our souls.
 And this is the main meaning of the advent of the 40-day preparation period, or it's
 called the Nativity fast, that we prepare the Lord's coming.
 Because we remember that when He came into this world, the world did not receive Him.
 The world did not want Him to do His mission, because the world was immersed into earthly
 matters, both the pagans and the Jews.
 The Jews were seemingly faithful, they had a lot of rituals and all that things, but
 they were nominal in their attitude.
 They did not have the love to God and willingness to follow Him no matter what.
 They had their own agenda, earthly agenda.
 And it went into conflict with the Lord.
 And the same with the pagans.
 They also did not want the Lord's coming.
 And that's why we had all those persecutions for 300 years.
 And they were also very proud about their culture, their philosophy, and they lived
 in worshipping those idols and worshipping the flesh.
 And this is the problem that we are facing now.
 So this also brings to us the reflection about the meaning of Christmas now, in this time.
 In this time when we have two big issues.
 First of all, we recall that the Lord is bringing peace.
 So that's why we chant on Christmas, "Peace on earth and good will among men.
 The Lord has brought peace, divine peace from above."
 And the man, the good will is towards God.
 They are willing to serve God.
 However, not everybody, not everybody is willing to serve God.
 And this is why the Lord also said, "Don't think that I brought peace, I brought sword."
 And sometimes it's confusing.
 Is it the peace or it's sword?
 And Apostle Paul is telling us that the sword that is brought by God is the word of God,
 which is cutting good and bad, true, false, evil and pure.
 And this is what is brought by Christ.
 So the people have to make a choice, whether they follow Christ and what he's brought,
 his mission, or they are against it and they are waging war with God.
 So now we are in this spiritual war and it's a religious war.
 And we need to think, well, where are we and who are we fighting with?
 And it is important to know that if we don't have patience, we don't have repentance and
 piety and humbleness, and we don't have love towards people, then it is dangerous to talk
 about war with us.
 Because we will find somebody that we hate, maybe it's government, they're preaching some
 Antichrist and there is some evil stuff everywhere and we will be really obsessed with ideas
 like that.
 But a Christian, he has peace in his soul, but he knows that the war is going on.
 And this war is with whom?
 With that spirit that is trying to deceive people and bring them away from God.
 And there are two ways it's deceiving, we can see.
 And it's also one is like Jewish type, another one is a pagan type.
 The Jewish type is fake Christianity, nominal Christianity.
 We have Christmas, yes, we decorate everything, yes.
 We bring presents, we buy stuff, yes, we have holidays, yes.
 But we live evil life.
 We live life without God.
 We are fully immersed in sinful life, in serving mammon, gaining profit and all of that.
 And this is how our heart is in there.
 And this is just the decoration, okay.
 So this is one setting, okay.
 Because the Jewish that did not want to receive Christ, that's what they had, even better.
 Because they were more pious than nominal Christians nowadays.
 But they were basically immersed in that situation, that they have worship and they have all these
 external rituals and all that stuff.
 But their heart is not willing to follow Christ.
 And another risk that we're facing is that risk of pagans, modern paganism.
 And it's anti-Christian, outspoken, okay.
 It doesn't want anything reminding us about Christ.
 And that's why even Christmas cards now, it's season's greetings.
 People don't even want to say Christmas because it has name of Christ in it, season's greetings.
 What seasons, what greetings, okay.
 And they are dreaming about canceling that at all, okay.
 Just don't, okay, we celebrate something else.
 We don't want, we don't need to celebrate this thing.
 So this is another, okay, modern age religions and neo-paganism and all that kind of stuff.
 That's using this yoga movement and all kinds of oriental practices and all kinds of stuff
 in order to replace Christianity at all, okay, even a trace of Christianity.
 And have completely clear, outspoken, anti-Christian world.
 And then we have this in the Soviet Union when they completely canceled anything related
 to church, okay.
 Just have new ideology, new doctrine.
 This is outspoken anti-Christian way, okay.
 So we know that this is happening.
 And we also can reflect upon the meaning of Christian in historical context.
 Because we know that this feast was first celebrated in the Western Roman Empire.
 And the first recorded celebration was under Constantine the Great in the year 336 AD.
 So that was 300 years after the resurrection of Christ.
 And that is, okay, they're telling us that it's a later feast, came into the church later.
 And it came into the church in that very special time when the world was conquered by Christianity.
 That small little group of faithful, okay, they brought the testimony and made the whole
 world be subdued to Christ to follow him.
 And this is what Christmas is related to, okay, this feast, okay.
 Now the Lord came into this world and now the whole world is conquered by this message
 of salvation and is all subject to piety and to following Christ.
 However, now we're facing this time when we're on the verge of slipping away completely,
 okay, either through this nominal Christian way or through outspoken anti-Christian way,
 pagan way.
 And we as Christians need to become super strong spiritually.
 We need to become as strong as the first Christians.
 If we want to not let this happen and if we're strong enough spiritually, the whole world
 will be brought back and will be inspired by Christ and will abandon all that evil stuff
 that they're doing, okay.
 And this is our goal to bring the whole world and we have everything necessary for that.
 And the Lord is with us and is helping us in that project and we should not give up
 and we should know that he will help us conquer and win this war, religious war, because he's
 much stronger and mightier than any other force, any other thing in this world and in
 any world.
 Okay, so may the Lord help us, may the Lord strengthen us on this path, in this mission,
 in this vision and have true joy of Christian, of Christmas, of Lord's coming into this world
 to be with us, to help us and to help all this world reach salvation, amen.
