 Dear brothers and sisters, today we change background.
 I am on the shore of Pacific Ocean in Taiwan.
 It's beautiful weather.
 And with this change I want to talk about change.
 I want to talk about change of our perspective toward God, toward Church, towards commandments,
 because our views and most people's views are exactly reversed.
 It's completely different from reality.
 We think that that's what it is, but it's a message that the devil was able to impose
 on everyone.
 And he was able to impose, because people, when they broke this relationship from Adam,
 then they became like the fallen angels.
 Fallen angels are also angels, but exactly with the opposite will, opposite direction
 of their life.
 Everything is exactly opposite from what it was, or how it was created by God.
 And similar things happened with people.
 And this is what this world is all about.
 What am I talking about?
 I'm talking about our feeling that God will take my freedom.
 I will go to church and the church will tell me, you cannot do this, this, this.
 It will limit my freedom.
 It will make me suffer.
 I will need to be standing on my knees and fasting and crying about sins, and I will
 be really suffering and all those kinds of things.
 The God and religion is about punishment, severity, and things like that.
 That's why I don't want this.
 I want a free life.
 I want to be able to eat what I want, whenever I want.
 I want to eat sausage anytime on Friday.
 I eat sausages.
 And during the night I wake up, I eat sausages.
 I want this freedom.
 And this is not freedom.
 This is not true freedom.
 Because true freedom comes when we have choice.
 Today, I can eat sausage, no problem.
 I can eat meat, whatever.
 I can choose to eat.
 I can choose not to eat.
 And this is taught by God and by saints.
 And I have this freedom, this power to choose.
 But without it, I have a commander, which is living inside me, my belly.
 Call it mamon, call it old self, old man in me.
 This old man, old self is demanding.
 Now you have to go and eat your sausage or whatever.
 And you go and you obey and you eat this sausage.
 You think it's you.
 You want it.
 No, it's this belly that's commanding you to do that.
 And that's not freedom.
 That's slavery.
 The church will impose some conservative traditional values and I will be limited in my perspectives.
 My thinking will be limited and this will make me suffer, make me fanatic.
 And this is the same mistake.
 This is the same mistake because we have wrong understanding of God.
 Okay.
 We can continue.
 There are some planes flying above me.
 Okay.
 So we are unfree.
 We are unfree because without God, without grace, what we hear is our own limited self.
 We become very much focused and closed in a cell.
 That's our brain, our mind, our values that were, we are brought in.
 Okay.
 And that is not free.
 Okay.
 This is why sometimes we want to learn some from other people when we think that they
 are interesting.
 Well, who is most interesting?
 Most interesting is God himself and what he can teach us, his wisdom.
 He's the most brilliant and genius and I don't know how to say things come from him, himself.
 And he can open up our mind.
 He can give us the real true vision on things.
 He can even tell us about future, about ourselves and many secrets, many mysteries.
 He can let us penetrate into that.
 And we are afraid and we think something like that.
 So these are real, like perverted, we can say this word is perverted the vision on things.
 We think that we are free, but if somebody is telling us something unpleasant, we get
 offended, maybe we scream at him or we swear at him or we feel bad, this is unfreedom.
 Because if we are with God, we have this choice.
 We can do same thing.
 We can scream, get angry, get distracted, but we have the choice not to be like that.
 And we can choose to bless him, to say thank you for all this negative stuff that you told
 me because this makes me more humble.
 We have this freedom with Christ and that's where freedom, where true freedom comes.
 We have this bad memory about somebody.
 We cannot drop that.
 This also unfreedom or this old self telling us today just lay on your bed, don't go anywhere.
 We become lazy.
 We play, we watch video.
 This is also told to us by this old self, eat your sausage all day, play computer games,
 watch stupid videos.
 This is told to us by this.
 But we obey, we have to obey without Christ.
 It's only with Christ we have a choice.
 Okay, yes, I have a choice to lay on my bed and do nothing all day, but I also have a
 choice to do some very meaningful things, to study something, to help people, to do
 something meaningful that is really important.
 We have a choice with Christ.
 That's where freedom comes.
 This old self tells us the God, he is not on your side.
 Don't trust him.
 He will trick you and stuff.
 We don't have love towards people.
 Love yourself.
 And this is unfreedom.
 When you only love yourself because you want to be protected, you want to be with full
 belly, you want, this is unfreedom.
 You're afraid of coronavirus.
 You're afraid of future, what will happen, economy will collapse, your relatives will
 get sick, your boss will fire you.
 You're afraid of that.
 You're living in fear.
 And this is where it was unfree.
 This is no freedom.
 Where is freedom when you're afraid?
 You fear.
 And with Christ, with God, you have no fear.
 And that's where true freedom comes.
 You think, okay, don't go to church.
 This old self tells us, unless things become real bad, God wants your things to be good.
 But you choose another thing.
 You choose to live without God.
 And then things get bad and worse, worse and worse.
 And then people say, oh, I go to church, I pray a little bit.
 But it's not time just to visit, light a candle and say, okay, now everything is fine.
 It's too late.
 We have made so many mistakes.
 We have done so much wrong.
 We need to establish a relationship with God.
 We need to repent from the whole heart and ask him to heal us.
 And that takes effort.
 We need to really put effort into this.
 And we have to change our life, not just come and put a candle and go back.
 We need to change our life.
 We need to open gospel, read into gospel.
 What does it tell us?
 How do we change our worldview?
 That's what's important.
 But the old self tells us, don't do it, wait, maybe one day you have some inspiration.
 And then I tell you, you won't have that inspiration.
 This old self will not give you any inspiration.
 It will tell you, sit at home, play your games, eat your sausages.
 That's what it will tell you.
 That's unfreedom, that's slavery.
 And then the whole life is wasted.
 The whole life is wasted.
 And people think, what's what happened?
 Everybody is away.
 Nobody loves me.
 I'm alone.
 I'm lonely, I'm depressed.
 And that's unfreedom.
 Because devil steals your time, steals your energy, steals your resources.
 This is his task.
 And you're deprived of all that.
 And you think that's freedom.
 It's not freedom.
 It's suffering.
 It's slavery.
 It's Mammon.
 Mammon is a god.
 It's an idol.
 It's a false god.
 But it's a very demanding one.
 He's demanding everything from you.
 Like a strict boss, your exploiter.
 He just exploits you.
 He doesn't love you.
 He wants you to take out everything you have, including your life.
 And even your eternal life, he wants to steal.
 That you suffer for forever, for eternity.
 This was the task.
 And that's what's happening with people who don't trust, who are not willing to make the
 step and to come closer to God.
 So let us change this world view.
 Let us really have trust in God that he is our father.
 He wants us to be with him.
 He wants us not to suffer.
 He wants our life to be full of happiness, wisdom, success.
 That's what he wants.
 We are his children.
 He really wants his children to develop and to be happy.
 Let us throw away this selfishness, this reliance only on these earthly things, this craving
 for career development, increase of wealth, and all those things.
 We throw this away.
 We choose Lord and we choose to be with him.
 May the Lord help us on this path, give us his motivation to do this, give us this freedom,
 teach us his wisdom, teach us the true view on things.
 May the Lord bless everyone and give us success in this new year, I mean.
