 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to make some clarifications about the
 purpose of the church and also the goals that we have as a church and as individual Christians.
 Well, regarding the purpose of the church existence, it's easier to talk about it,
 because it's always the same. But the goals are different for different times, different societies,
 and even different members of the church. And both of these aspects sometimes are understood
 in a wrong way. People think that the purpose of the church is to make people better,
 that they are not so evil, not so sinful. Or some people say, well, the purpose is to
 preserve something, to preserve some ancient faith. And this is the purpose of the church.
 Other people may say that the purpose of the church is to provide some psychological relief,
 that you feel better, even though the life is bad, but you feel better, some treatment.
 All of these things are not the purpose of the church, because the purpose of the Christian
 church as it's created by Christ, established by Him, is to do the testimony, is to witness Christ
 to the world, and to unite people with God, and thereby bringing them true life, making them alive,
 and bringing them the kingdom of heaven. And at the same time deleting and conquering
 all the evil things which are in this world. So this is the purpose of the church. It has
 different aspects, but this is it. And it is always the same. So the way the church
 achieves, accomplishes this purpose, this main goal, or maybe I should say this is the goal,
 but there are different tasks. The goals are the same, sorry, not the purpose. The goal is the same,
 but the tasks are different. So this goal is always the same, and Christ is always
 checking. Are we fulfilling the goal? Because the Jews at His time, they preserved the faith,
 everything was fine, but the goal was not met. They stopped bringing people in union with God,
 and their hearts were far away. So we need to remember this is the goal. We cannot formalize it,
 but we can formalize some tasks. And this is also important to know for people who just enter into
 the church that when they come into the church they need to renounce their or put their personal
 individual goals and tasks aside. They all become secondary. We become not just individuals like
 soldiers in the army. They have all their personal tasks and ambitions are secondary to when the war
 is going on especially. And in the church the war is always going on. So the soldiers are
 responsible for doing the task as good as they can, understanding the task and doing it as good
 as they can. But unfortunately very often not just people who come into the church, but even
 the members of the church don't know well what are the goals and what are the tasks of the church.
 So we've spoke about the goals. And the tasks are different. In the ancient times when there was
 this persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire, the tasks were very much different
 from the tasks during the later times, the post-Constantine era when the church became
 predominant in the empire. But they were yet different in some other places like Persia which
 remained mainly non-Christian. And in our days the goals, the tasks are also different say in
 Russia, in traditionally Orthodox countries. The tasks in the collective West say the
 non-Orthodox but Christian background, these post-Christian societies, post-modernist.
 The task of the church in these areas, in these societies is yet different. And
 also in the places like Taiwan, like or in other Middle East countries or
 some in the communist countries, the task is yet different from the others. So we need to know that
 also to be mindful of that. And the task of priests and tasks of lay people, tasks of monks are all
 different. But let us say a little bit more about this because I won't be able to say a task
 for everyone. But generally speaking we can distinguish that in the past, in the times of say
 ancient Roman Empire or in the countries like in pagan countries, barbarian countries,
 the task was very much directed at telling people what is true. Telling people what is true faith,
 that there is one God and not many. And the people were uneducated and the people were
 pretty much they believed what they heard. Especially when they saw that this is
 the way people live and that this really is different life. They saw that and
 they heard it and basically they believed and they changed. And they embraced Christianity.
 But in our days it is very different because everybody thinks he is super educated.
 Most people have some kind of degree and there are so many different views, philosophies
 and people may believe media because it's something coming. But even not everybody believes
 media. And the media is lying basically very often. But they don't really believe if you tell
 them okay this is the thing. Well prove it to me. Do you have scientific proof? They know what's
 science and they need proof. So words and this kind of direct testimony is not that powerful,
 not that useful these days. So the tasks that we have now are mainly related to sharing your love
 for Christ. Sharing it with others. Making them also love the object of your love.
 So like for example you like something, you like classical music. The way you make others like it,
 your relatives say they like rock and roll or something else. You cannot just say oh guys
 that's harmful music, that's bad music. Just okay I tell you what's good music, this is good music.
 You say well I don't think so okay I am used to something else. So this doesn't work. You
 would need to sort of make them feel how good it is, how it can influence you, how it gives you
 some positive things and how it helps your life and things like that. And then maybe even they
 might not agree with you conceptually but slowly slowly their heart will be opening. Their
 heart will be opening to what you like and they might also like it at some point and choose that
 and throw away what they have. So this is the task with Christ. So first and foremost we need to
 ourselves love Christ. How that might sound. So the fundamental thing of course for the church
 is to have and for every Christian is to have a solid spiritual basis. And the solid spiritual
 basis is based on prayer, involvement in divine liturgy and Eucharist, receiving body of Christ.
 And changing our life through fasting and through living, through embracing the commandments of
 Christ, reading gospel and making his words and commandments live in us and changing us. Okay
 this is spiritual basis that we have and then we can establish these goals. So this we should not
 just go and try to do things. We need some foundation for that. And once we have that
 foundation we can do this our mission as Christians in a better way. Okay because he said go and teach
 all nations and baptize them. So he sent people. He didn't say okay guys now just learn things
 and or or just live good life or just no. He said of course follow me take up your cross and follow
 me and then go and be my witnesses everywhere. Okay so we need to treat that as the spiritual task.
 Okay because very often when we come to church we say okay now it's all about spirituality,
 spiritual life and it's all about some spiritual things. Okay some mystical things which are out
 there and okay God I cannot see him but okay we need his grace and all that. It's very spiritual
 but this material life is a different world. Okay I just do as I used to do. Okay this is a big
 mistake because spiritual life includes this world. Okay this material world and physical
 people. Okay and things that are done in this physical world with physical money with physical
 objects. Okay and this is involving spirituality and this is not broken apart. So spiritual things
 are accomplished in this material world. Okay so we should not just okay go somewhere. This is
 like monophysy. There was a heresy monophysy which is a little bit like that. Okay that's
 only spiritual things are in the church. There was a division. So let us remember that let us
 think well what are my tasks in my family, in my life, in my job that Christ gives me and I'm
 as a soldier of Christ in this big army. I am reaching these targets. Okay I'm putting these
 tasks and I'm accomplishing these tasks on a daily basis. May Lord help us, give us his blessing
 and give us his power to change this world with him not ourselves. With him
 to make us love him more than anything else and share this love with everybody around us. I mean
 God bless.
