 Dear brothers and sisters, there are still issues now in the church and actually in the whole world
 regarding to this coronavirus problem. And the problem is that many people they say that there
 are no pandemics and that you should not close the churches and that the church authorities don't
 have faith because they implement all those measures that sometimes are even like a blasphemy
 or a sacrilege. During the communion there are some procedures that you have to do
 that you don't believe in God. If you are afraid of the virus so much that the virus is almighty
 and not the God the Creator is almighty. So there are many quarrels right now, many issues
 and there is a lot of accusation that the church leaders are
 either too undemocratic or they sold themselves to the government and they do...
 And there are many other things which are like turmoil within the church.
 And because people have passions, people believe that they are right, they are true and their
 quarrels begin. And right now I've already recorded some videos about this topic in the past
 but since this is not settling down I think some clarifications are needed.
 And this also prompts us to think deeper about our faith and our relationship with God.
 So this is what I want to share today. And well there are the core problem is rooted, the root
 problem. It's rooted in faith. What is faith? Is it just belonging to some religious organization
 and formally accepting all the dogmas, all the rules and doing whatever they say, whatever
 this organization, be it a church or some other group, it does. It tells you, you do everything
 and you're fine. You believe everything in the right way, you do everything that you're
 supposed to do, you're fine. This is one attitude to religion, to faith. But this is a fake
 attitude. Because what matters to Christ is your heart. What matters is whether you have
 trust in Him on a daily basis and you follow Him by trying to keep all the commandments as much
 as you can. And His kingdom is true reality for you. And you search for this kingdom and you
 do testimony for this kingdom. That this is real and it's true and it's either it's already in your
 heart or you're somewhere close to it. You can feel it. So the Lord said okay don't care about
 tomorrow. Tomorrow will care about itself. Who lives like that now? He said don't be afraid
 of those who kill the body. Fear only the one who can make your soul suffer all in the
 haters of fire. And so we fear everything except God. God is there, He is good. Why fear Him?
 But we fear that we have not enough money, that we have some legal issues or we have
 some problems with children or we get lonely or whatever. We fear everything. We fear this
 coronavirus thing. We're afraid of everything. So this is another thing. But we still will
 belong to some church. We are Orthodox or we're not Orthodox. But this is not as important for
 Christ Himself. So having this in mind we can say that when we ourselves have mature faith
 and we are not afraid of course we won't be afraid of coronavirus and we can believe that okay I pray
 that nothing happens with me today in the church. I pray to God. I go and nothing happens because
 Christ said whatever you ask in the prayer from me believe that you will get it. As straightforward
 as that. Just trust what you ask that this will happen and you'll get it. Who has faith like that
 right now? Okay so if we do have faith like that when we pray and we go okay and we don't have
 anything is that you can drink poisonous stuff and it will not harm you. So do you have such
 a faith? Just pray and drink poison and nothing happens. You have faith like that. But He said
 don't tempt your Lord. God your Lord. So we don't do that on purpose. But still many people don't
 have faith like that. Most of us we don't have faith like that. And when we drink something we
 die. Because we don't trust Him really. So there are things that we find in the in the gospel and
 in the bible. We see that the Lord comes to those Jewish people who all believe in God. They all
 have 100% faith. But they assure that there is God and they go to synagogue and they know the
 bible very well. But He said and He comes and He says you are this unfaithful and adulterous
 generation. How long will I suffer you? How long will I bear with you? And this actually can be
 told about us, said about modern day Christians. Including Orthodox. But at the same time we read
 in the Epistle of Saint Apostle Paul, we read that you are the priesthood of the kingdom,
 of the kingdom of heaven. You are people taken into the Lord's bosom, chosen by Him. You are
 saints, you're holy. We read this in the in also in the New Testament. So if you can match those
 two things, okay, if you can understand how those two things can be matched, that at the same time
 I'm a sinner, I don't have faith, I am nothing, I'm really always betraying Christ. I am garbage,
 okay, I'm worse than garbage. Because garbage doesn't sin. But at the same time we hear these
 words. Because when we repent this is when we get close to God. This is when we become holy in His
 eyes. So if you can understand how these two things match, you will understand how to solve this
 problem, this faith problem with the measures of coronavirus in the churches.
 And now we see that the church authorities are in a very difficult situation. So
 they need to do testimony about faith, that we believe that God will save, will help,
 He will not allow anything bad to happen to His faithful. They need to testify that this is true,
 this is real, okay. But at the same time people are different, okay. There are different people
 coming into church and the church authorities cannot guarantee that everybody who comes,
 they are mature in faith, including themselves sometimes, okay, very often. So they're placed
 in a very difficult situation, okay, that at the same time they need to testify,
 do this testimony, but at the same time they need to comply with all those measures as though they
 don't believe God, okay, as though they believe that there is no God who can help and save.
 So they are squeezed in between these two things, okay, and it takes a lot of wisdom, faith
 to find a way out of this dilemma, this problem, okay. And what we do need is we need
 more education of the people, that they are not afraid that the church authorities betray Christ,
 okay, especially with this spoon problem, okay. The spoon has to be dipped into
 vinegar or into alcohol and then, okay, every time somebody receives communion dipping the spoon
 and people say this is sacrilege, this is blasphemy, you don't believe in God,
 how you need to sanitize Christ, this is just betraying God, your faith, and it's completely
 out of the, okay, cannot be Christianity if you don't believe in God at all, if you do that,
 okay. So we need to explain to people, okay, that this has been done in times of pandemics,
 things like that have been done and there is nothing betraying Christ or no sacrilege because
 we are not, it's not that we think that the body of Christ bears this virus, no, but some
 surfaces, spoons, okay, and even if we believe that they don't do anything, okay, we comply to
 these government regulations and there is nothing really wrong with that and we can
 do testimony about our faith in other ways by sacrificing ourselves through ministry, through
 loving your neighbor, through all kinds of mission work. You can do all of that stuff
 to testify, to do testimony about your faith about Christ and etc. And not just by screaming
 and saying that, oh, you're all betrayers, you're all serving anti-Christ and whatever,
 this is a mistaken way. But at the same time the church authorities, they need to understand that
 there are some things that, okay, there are some limits, okay. So for example, myself, I believe
 that closing churches is a mistake, okay. Having strict measures, yes, strict measures, it's fine,
 it's no problem, but just closing the church, not allowing people to come, this is the boundary is
 crossed already, okay. That means that, okay, this is basically betraying our faith, okay. So, you know,
 we, this is a lack of faith, this is called lack of faith, okay. So, because there was no time when
 some saint or holy father, he would say, yes, we closed the church, we don't see it. During 2000
 years we had plague and all kinds of diseases, pandemics and everything much worse than the
 coronavirus and we didn't have, we didn't close the churches. So, you know, this is a mistake
 and we just need to call things what it is, okay. Mistake is a mistake, lack of faith is lack of
 faith, lack of understanding and lack of love is also a problem, okay. So,
 and there are always three ways to answer to something, okay, to some evil, some bad thing.
 One is to be aggressive, okay, to retaliate, somebody hits you, you hit him back. Another way
 is to run away, betray, okay, be a coward, okay. And the third way is what Christ has shown to us,
 to stay there, don't hit back and receive the hits, okay, and witness your faith in God
 and your love to your neighbor. This is what Christ said,
 turn when somebody hits your left cheek, turn the right one to him. So, we need to be like that when
 we can comply without betraying Christ, we comply to all those measures. When it means that we
 already betraying Christ, already doing something wrong, then we don't do it, okay. We need faith
 and everybody can make mistakes, including church authorities. So, let us be true Christians,
 not by form, not by some rules, all of this is how it's supposed. No, that's not your faith,
 is it strong enough? Do you have love to your neighbor, your love of Christ? If you don't have
 it, nothing will help, no external rules or measures will help. So, let us think about this
 and let us be wise and nurture this power of faith in us with God's help and God bless every
 one of you and me.
