 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about spirituality, because very often we hear spiritual father, spiritual life, and how to become more spiritual.
 And it may seem that we are talking about some very abstract things or some mystical things that are far away from our daily life.
 It is not like that. And it is very important for us to be able to distinguish true spirituality from false, from fake spirituality.
 And very often we listen to some lectures, some videos, or read some articles, and we ask ourselves - is this spiritual person, is this person bringing spirituality or not, or is it something else?
 Well, there are a few things that we need to be mindful of.
 First of all, what is spirituality itself? Spirituality itself is not... it cannot be determined by some external factors.
 For example, the way the person is speaking, his charisma, or his, say, rhetorics - he is very talented in argumentation, or he can bring a lot of examples.
 And he is very persuasive, he is very talented - okay, yes, this must be coming from God, this is spiritual.
 We remember that Moses himself, he was not speaking well, he had some speech defect.
 He was saying some things that people could not understand. And now, when we meet people like that, or speakers like that, we normally don't think that they can say something really meaningful or important.
 So, with the Lord is completely different, it's different logic. So, what is spiritual?
 Spiritual is something that is directly related or coming from God, because God is spirit.
 This transcends all our physical and intellectual and even artistic categories, it's going beyond.
 So, we cannot really grasp spirituality or spiritual things.
 So, this is why we should try to completely set aside all our normal human ways of making judgment.
 For example, we may say some professor, he's got this professor feeling that he knows a lot, he is very persuaded about what he is saying, he is knowledgeable, and this is a professor who can feel that he brings that knowledge to others.
 But with spirituality, it cannot be done like that.
 So, it's even more funny when somebody is trying to play or show spirituality, putting some kind of way of speaking, some special way of presenting himself.
 All of that doesn't count. For the Lord, this means nothing.
 So, what is meaningful for the Lord? And I need to say that it's not that easy for us, because to determine something spiritual, we need to be spiritual ourselves, and we're not.
 Otherwise, there would not be so many different religions, different sects, different denominations, with the same gospel, everybody reading the same Bible, but so many different...
 So, the matter is not that trivial for us to find how we can find something truly coming from the Lord.
 And since there are no external criteria for determining whether some content is spiritual or not, we need to see if it's related to the words of God, to the Holy Scripture.
 The very fundamental principle is this.
 And Apostle Paul, in his epistle to Hebrews, he writes, chapter 4, verse 12, "For the word of God is alive and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit,
 and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner or judge of thoughts and intents of the heart."
 These are the properties of the word of God, which is spiritual, by definition, because it's coming from God.
 So, it works like a judge who discerns good and bad, true, false, something pleasing to God, something unpleasing to God.
 So, when we meet the word of God, we are as though looked upon by God himself.
 And everything that doesn't suit, that doesn't fit the word of God, is punished. It receives some punishment. So, that's why it's a little bit unpleasant, maybe very unpleasant.
 Because we live in the carnal world, or maybe the world of soul, what we say cultural, some cultural things, music, it's not carnal, it's something higher.
 But this higher is not spirit. This is not spirituality. Some people say, "Oh, that's spirituality." We go to the concert, classical music, that's spirituality.
 No, it's not. Spirituality is something else. So, we live in this kind of reality.
 And that's why when something spiritual comes into it, it is like this sword that's cutting asunder those things.
 And this is why this property is what is inherent into any spiritual content, be it a lecture, or a movie, or a story, article, anything.
 We are sort of judged by it. And this may be not so pleasant. That's why prophets were so unpleasant when they preached and all of them were stoned.
 This is why it's not so many people willing to listen to spiritual content. It's not like a concert of, say, some pop singer. Thousands of people.
 No, there won't be ever such big popularity, because people don't want to be judged. They want to live in that shady, dark reality that they live in.
 So, this is the property of spiritual content. Another way of trying to establish whether it's spiritual or not is to see if we have a feeling that what we received is pleasing to God.
 And how do we know that? Well, we know that from the experience of repentance, penitence.
 We can even think, well, this person, say, speaker, would he repent? Can we imagine him repenting or not?
 And ourselves, when we read the content and we hear something, our own experience of repentance, does it go in conflict with what we hear?
 Is it a different spirit? And what is the feeling of repentance? What do we feel when we repent?
 We feel at least three things. We feel that we throw away all wrong stuff, wrong behavior, wrong ideas, wrong values.
 We throw that away. We cut this line. We don't want it. We throw this out. This is one feeling.
 Another feeling that we have as a result is some release, relief that we feel that now all that burden, all that mistakes and all of that is now over.
 I just throw that out. I feel that relief. And at the same time, the third thing that we feel is we feel responsibility.
 That now I am with God and this is new life and I want to keep this life. I want to live like that.
 So these three feelings that we have when we truly, deeply repent.
 And these three feelings is also what we need to... at least there should be no conflict with what we hear or see.
 This conflict may be, for example, if it's, say, some romantic stuff.
 It's romantic stuff. Oh, yes, Jesus, I love you and some visions and something else.
 It's so romantic. But this doesn't go in hand with our repentance experience.
 This brings us to some fairy tale thing. And this is not true spirituality.
 So all of that stuff is false. It will bring us to somewhere else.
 Or, say, it's somebody arguing for something and we feel there is a spirit of Pharisee.
 The spirit of the law says this, this, this, and you've done this, this, this. And we don't feel any truth.
 Well, we don't feel love. We don't feel the Lord's compassionate humbleness in that.
 We feel that strictness and some kind of enmity towards some people or some groups.
 Which is also, we feel, that the spirit of God is not there.
 So why I say that is because it is bad to be without God, to live like we normally live.
 Everybody lives. Well, there is no God in people's life.
 They just live. This is not that bad, actually.
 Because the worst is when we live, we think that we are spiritual or that we live with God.
 But this is something else. This is not God. This is some fake thing.
 Substitute. Surrogate. And we think that this is religious life and this is...
 That's the most important, dangerous situation. Because it is another spirit.
 It's not the spirit of God. It's another spirit that is pulling us somewhere else.
 So this is why we need to be very careful not to get fake false spirituality.
 This is much worse. It's better not to have any spirituality than to have that.
 So we just throw everything away. We just go back to no spirituality.
 And start from scratch. Start from beginning, finding, go.
 What other important things that we need to say?
 Is that we should not look for some speaker or some preacher
 and to try to say, "Well, I will need to find some truly spiritual person."
 Truly spiritual person is someone who has the spirit of God always in him with him.
 Christ is living in him all the time. And basically you won't find such person.
 And we should not be looking for such people. Because there are few and it will be difficult to find.
 But whom should we look for? I mean, how do we decide what kind of speaker we should be listening to and what kind we should not?
 We at least need to determine if the person is honestly trying to bring the message of God.
 He is just trying to transfer what he himself has learned, has read.
 He is honest in this and he is not misled somewhere else.
 He is not possessed by some arrogance, some willingness to perform.
 There is no selfishness. There is no fake thing. There is no proudness in him.
 So he is just trying to share the message of God. Simple as that. He is not adding anything else to it.
 And Orthodox. Because otherwise there will be some kind of spirit added, mixed to it.
 So we are looking for this kind of preacher or pastor or lecturer to be able to say "Yes, this stuff I can receive as food for my spiritual life".
 Other stuff, it is not that I just don't touch, everything is evil and wrong. No, we can learn from everywhere.
 We are open to all kinds of knowledge and people share their experience and there is no problem with that.
 But this is more for education, not for spirituality. We need to distinguish that.
 So let us be careful with this and let us ourselves become such messengers of the Lord.
 Just do the testimony of what we honestly find in the gospel and in spiritual life. We share it, we test it through daily life, through practice.
 Be it prayer, be it fasting, be it anything else. And we bring this message, this experience to others.
 And we should not wait "One day only when I have Christ always in me, then I can bring this message".
 No, He is sending everyone. He tells everyone "Guys, be my witnesses".
 Just do this testimony everywhere, as good as you can. Try not to make mistakes, but if you don't try, you will never know.
 So let us be eager in that ministry, not being afraid of anything and the Lord's blessing and His mighty hand will be with us. Amen.
