 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about church and modernity
 modernization. Do we need to change things in the church? And why are we so
 often criticized for being too archaic and not being active and not having so
 many people interested in the mission, in donations, like say in the Protestant
 churches? Okay, so first of all the issue of modernization. Modernization has the
 main problem is that we cannot adjust to a fallen person. So if society is getting
 further and further away from God, the church cannot also get further and way
 from God and become just the same. And we remember the words of the Lord that if
 salt becomes loses its taste then how can you return this taste to it?
 It's not useful for anything, just thrown away. So the church doesn't
 want to lose its saltiness, wants to bring the message of God to people in
 every historic period, any nation, anytime, bringing the same message of God and
 having the same spirit as was received by Holy Apostles, the Holy Spirit, and not
 substituting it with anything else. But being able to adjust, to not to adjust,
 to have this bridge and communication with people of any age, any society. So
 this comes from God being unchanged. He is eternal truth. So his words, he
 said himself, our Lord Jesus Christ, he said that this earth and heavens will
 pass by, will be destroyed, will perish. But my words will not pass by.
 They will not become irrelevant, outdated. Okay, so they will be valid and
 true for every generation, anytime. But at the same time we know that the Lord, that
 God is ever renewing. He's got life. God is life. And life is
 always becoming new. So he's this sort of newness in him all the time.
 It's not just some fixed stone. No, he is life itself. And the life
 always rejuvenates and brings up new things. So we cannot just describe with
 our logic how these two things go together. So this is why for us
 it's difficult to understand, but we need to remember that the Lord himself is not
 changing. His words are valid for all generations. So this is why this argument
 that we need to revise everything in the church, we just need to get rid of all
 the traditions and what saints used to do in the past is not applicable to now.
 And canons have to be changed and everything else has to be changed. This
 is a wrong idea. It's a big mistake. However, we need to think about the other
 situation which is really making trouble, which is creating problems for the
 church. This is related to church being reduced to culture, religious
 culture. What do I mean? I mean when we think of faith as just
 religious belonging and preserving some traditions. That this is how we
 do things. This is what we do. The conditions that we need for being
 Christians. You need to be baptized, you need to read the Bible, you need to pray, you
 need to go to church. These things, you've done it? Okay, you're fine, okay? As long as
 we preserve all those things, we're fine. And there is a big mistake
 here, because this makes us fixed like an artifact, like some archaeological artifact
 or antique. We're not an antique thing, which is fixed. It does have
 life and it's cracking, it's perishing, it goes into... it's completely outdated.
 We cannot become such a thing. So to avoid this problem, we first need to
 understand what is church practically, okay? And from apocalypses, from the
 book of Revelation, we see that the church is seen by
 Saint John the Apostle as a woman dressed in sun, okay? And she is on a moon,
 standing on the moon, and there are 12 lamps on top. And okay, so we see
 her as a young woman in the sun, it's shining. And also Apostle Paul is
 referring to her as a bride. And the bride we know is normally a young
 girl and very naive, very pure, very full of life, okay? So we can see this nature
 that the church is very young and eager to do things, okay? Eager to
 study, to know more. But at the same time, in the book called "Pastor of
 Saint Hermes", this is a very early saint. In the beginning of the 2nd century he
 wrote this book, which has a very high authority in the church, even
 though it's not a whole scripture, but it's got very high authority. He writes
 that he is seeing these visions, and in one of the visions he sees an old lady,
 a very very old lady, who comes and takes him somewhere and tells him what things
 mean, and then he discovers that this old lady is the church. So the church appears
 in this vision of an old lady. And we understand this as the church having a
 lot of experience, a lot of wisdom. And she has her love like grandma has to
 her grandchildren, say. So this is hard. So the church can have so much
 traditions and experience from the saints, from accumulated through the
 centuries, okay? And brings all that wealth to us so that we can use it, that
 we can become better closer to God. So now we go back to this
 question. How come in the early church many people sacrificed their
 lives for God? They've brought everything, donated all their properties,
 they were praying all night long, and for them it was everything. Christ was
 everything. But now we don't have such spirit, we don't have such people, and
 we become very bureaucratic and lazy and not so united among ourselves
 in the communities and parishes, very selfish and stingy and many other things.
 How come today Christians are like that? So this is because now we have
 accumulated so much tradition and all those canons and all those rules and
 prayers and many others. Is it because of that? It is like a burden, okay? It's
 killing all this spirit. And the answer is no. The answer is no. Because we see
 that the church is at the same, at the same, is very young and full of life, but
 also the church is very old and very experienced and very knowledgeable. So
 all of that is just different ways of looking at the church. It cannot be
 just in one sentence you explain what it is and that's it. It's a mystery and we
 can look at it from different perspectives. So there is no nothing wrong
 and this is greatly beneficial what the Holy Spirit living in the church for all
 these times have accumulated. The church has accumulated all that precious
 experience and spirituality. But the problem is that we have... So you'll say
 okay, why then Protestants? Very often they are much more willing to donate
 things and do mission and stuff. Well one of the reasons is psychological.
 We know that in the Protestant denominations, most of them, they
 don't have a theology of sacraments. So they they are not united with the body
 of Christ. So there is no this mystical union with Christ in his body, okay? There
 is different types of union but it's not that close and as we can have it and we
 do have it in the Orthodox Church. However because most of those
 communities they are very new. They've been established maybe a few years ago,
 maybe 20 years ago or maybe a couple hundred years ago. And being relatively
 new they still have this psychologically have this feeling of
 having new life and having new goals and being more eager. And
 this is what we can learn from them. This is what we are supposed to be until now.
 But the problem is that we have this culture and the culture when we see that
 everybody is not so eager for hundreds of years. So we've been like that and
 pretty much we're sure because we have so many saints. We're sure
 that we will go to heaven and so no need for anything else.
 Just stay like everybody else and you'll get there. So this
 spirit, this culture reduces our eagerness to be with Christ, to dare, to
 dare go the mission, to do this, do that, sacrifice, donate. So this is why
 we are becoming not just clinging to the old woman situation but sometimes
 clinging to this archaeological artifact situation which is much worse.
 So what we need to be aware of is this risk that there is to understand why
 this happens, to try ourselves to avoid this, to have a different mindset, to have
 different goals and spirituality and to draw as much energy from Christ,
 from his divine body and blood and receiving having received this energy to
 implement it in our life. May the Lord give us this blessing, strengthen us in
 this ministry, in this testimony and give us his joy in this life with him.
 Amen. God bless.
