 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about what will happen in the future,
 and we know about this from the Revelation, the book of Revelation, which is the most
 mystical book, most controversial, but this is the last book of the New Testament and
 of the whole Bible. And this means that this is what will be in the end, in the end of
 this world. And it gives us many clues about what is happening now and what is to expect.
 This is why Christ, when he was in Jerusalem, he told his disciples about things that are
 going to come. His own end of his life is very important, it's related to the end of
 Jerusalem as well as to the end of all the world. And this is especially important topic
 now when we see these changes that are happening and people talk about the New World Order
 again and this topic is around from 1930s. But this is next step, New World, New, New
 World Order. And changes are coming, we can see that they're coming. We're not yet sure
 exactly what is going to happen. There are different opinions about this, but we see
 that there is already a lot of economic and political change going on after this current
 crisis has begun. Just yesterday, we had the whole government arrested in Burma, in Myanmar
 and the new government, those generals, they took the power. They closed now all the banks
 and you cannot take your money and no power, no internet. And we see just like very brief
 news. This is what happened. Let's go on. What else? So the same thing can happen to
 our country no matter where we are. We see how unstable the situation even in the United
 States, the biggest and most wealthy country in the world. So there definitely are going
 to come changes. Maybe it would be wars or some pandemics or something else. And we as
 Christians have to be ready for this. We have to be ready. Nothing can take us by surprise.
 And we should be ready for the worst. For the worst in this world, but not for the worst
 in the spiritual world. Because the book of Revelation tells us that we expect the end
 of the world because of what? Because of second coming of Jesus Christ, our savior. His second
 coming is our hope and our desire. But this event belongs to spiritual, to the world in
 heaven, to our relationship with God. But in the world, in this mortal world, the situation
 would be very bad. We know about Antichrist. We know about his kingdom. We know that almost
 all the people are going to be worshipping him as God, perceiving him as God and will
 be rejecting the true God and rejecting Christ. And they will be completely immersed in that
 lifestyle and way of thinking that will be prevalent in that society, in that world that
 will take place. So we know that these very bad things for a Christian are going to be
 also in the end. So we know that something really, really bad is coming. Talking about
 these world events. And of course it has a spiritual meaning because people will abandon
 Christ and God and will lose all kinds of moral and Christian values. Okay. And we need
 to be ready for that. Psychologically ready. We should not think, okay, oh yes, now very
 soon coronavirus will be over and things will get better. Or very soon economy is going
 to get more stable and it's going to be better. Or very soon the science will discover some
 things and we'll have a better life or something else. We should not live in that mindset.
 We expect something better in this world. This is very important. This is our world
 view. No need for that. It is enough for us to be with God, with Christ, no matter how
 bad things are. And we should be strong enough to withstand all of that. We hope for the
 good but we are ready, we should be ready for the bad. Okay. Of course we don't want
 the war to happen and things like that to happen but we expect it to happen. Okay. There's
 nothing wrong with that. This doesn't make us pessimists. This makes us Christian realists.
 Another temptation is to think that in the future, not in the future, we hope that everything
 is stable. Sustainable development and everything is stable, nothing, no turmoil, no economic
 crisis. Well, this mindset also has its problems. Okay. Because we are not afraid of change.
 We know that when big changes happen, temptations, social change, economic, political, there
 are people who are happy. Okay. These people are businessmen, some of them. Okay. Because
 from this change they can quickly gain some gain. Okay. And people are suffering but they
 are winning. Okay. They receive profit. But for us, we are completely on the opposite
 side. Okay. When people suffer, we suffer. But we can derive great spiritual benefit
 from this suffering and from the situation. And this is what we need to learn how to do.
 So no matter how bad things get, we get the outcome, the good spiritual results and become
 stronger and become wiser in all respects as Christians, as a church. Okay. So this
 is why for us, we should not be afraid of any kind of temptation or change or anything
 else. Okay. So let us have this kind of mindset. And what happens now is that this evil that
 is in this world, okay, this evil is not aggressive towards Christianity. There is no open aggression
 except some countries, maybe in Africa, in Muslim countries. But overall in the whole
 world we cannot say that. Okay. There is persecutions going on everywhere. Why is this so? This
 is so not because the evil became less. Okay. And good things and faith became stronger.
 We know that now the faith is not that strong in most people. Okay. The reason for that
 is that evil is trying to play a role that is not evil. Okay. It's good. And trying to
 attract as many people as possible into its snare. Okay. To ensnare people. This is like
 falling into a trap. Okay. You think it's something good, but you fall in and then it
 closes. Okay. And it's too late. So this is what is happening. So this world wants people
 to be reliant on gadgets, on social networks, those Facebook and all of those things to
 buy stuff they like. Okay. To have the lifestyle they want, comfortable and have all kinds
 of benefits, education for their children and everything else. So that when it comes
 to choice, people will not be able to say, no, we can live without this. Okay. And everybody's
 going to be in there. In where? In the system that has no God at all. Okay. It will be fake
 God. Okay. Something similar happened in the Soviet Union that all of a sudden it was a
 Christian country. Everybody's sort of Christian. But all of a sudden the government became
 against the church. All the people got very hostile to their faith. They lost their faith
 and the whole society became like that. And if you have faith in Christ, then you will
 be persecuted or marginalized and you will just suffer. You cannot live. Almost. You
 cannot survive in that society. So this is what we need to be ready. Okay. And to prepare
 ourselves now, while there is a relatively speaking freedom, we need to prepare for that.
 And if that happens one day and it will happen eventually that everybody is going to be against
 Christ and don't have anything to do with Christ or it will be fake Christ. Okay. And
 if you still have faith in Jesus Christ and you are on this path to salvation, you will
 be either destroyed or marginalized. And it will be so few people like that, that it's
 not going to be a danger anymore. And even now there is not much aggression against the
 church because the church is not as influential as it used to be. So it's not a big danger
 for this new world order. Let's call it that way. So let us now train ourselves through
 fasting, through going through different sorrow troubles, through active mission, through
 active education in faith. And we will get stronger as soldiers of Christ to be those
 few who can preserve our faith in times of persecution, in times of challenge. So let
 us become more independent of this world. No matter what happens in this world, we are
 still with Christ. We're not so much affected. We're not afraid of what will happen. It's
 going to be a new government. It's going to be a war. It's going to be whatever revolution.
 We're ready for that. So that we will stay with Christ. What is happening now is a little
 bit similar. It's very similar actually to the entrance of the Lord into Jerusalem. He's
 entering in Jerusalem and everybody is saying, wow, hooray, you're the savior. Everything
 is good. But then one of his apostles betrayed him. He's grasped and persecuted and killed
 and all other disciples leave him, run away. So then this happens like real fast overnight.
 And this is what we should be prepared for. Okay. If now every everybody is saying Christianity
 is so good. Yes. Church. Everything's fine. All of a sudden this changes. Okay. And people
 disciples, Christians run away. Okay. They're afraid. Some betray Christ, like Judas. And
 there is a very strict persecution on those who are still standing and who still are loyal
 to Christ, which are going to be very few. So let us be ready for that. Let us perceive
 what is happening now like that. This is what is most important. Not what is going to happen
 this year, next year, crisis, whatever, the vaccination. We don't care about these things
 that much. Okay. Who's going to be next government and things like that. So let us be strong.
 Let us be faithful, loyal to Christ and strong in prayer and fasting and our love to Christ
 and to other people.
 God bless.
