 Dear brothers and sisters, today we will talk about probably the most important topic in
 our life that is related to the meaning of our life here, as seen by God himself. We
 are concerned about many things. What will happen with the world? When is economic crisis?
 Some other changes, what will be after coronavirus, and many other things. But the most important
 thing is not this. Okay, let's take a look at the Gospel of Luke, chapter 13, verse 1
 to verse 5. This is what the Lord has said himself. "There were present at that season
 some that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate has mingled with their sacrifices.
 And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose you that these Galileans were sinners above
 all the Galileans, because they suffered such things, I tell you, nay, but except you repent,
 you shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and slew
 them, think you that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem, I tell you,
 nay, but except you repent, you shall all likewise perish." And then the Lord is saying
 the parable of the sycamore tree that doesn't bring fruit and it will be cut out if it doesn't
 bring fruit next year. So we hear in this parable about what? About coronavirus, not
 only. We hear that there is some bomb by terrorists blowing 500 people dead. We hear about this
 hurricane that came in Southeast Asia, it's 400,000 dead. Now we have this coronavirus
 thing it's 2-3 million dead already. And there are many other examples. We say, Oh, what
 is wrong? It's not enough vaccine or it's something else. It's some flying, some virus
 of some animals and what is wrong? No, this is nothing. What is important is what the
 Lord is saying here, that if you don't repent, you will all die like that, maybe tomorrow.
 So that means what? That means that our life is not that important for the Lord unless
 we repent. This is one thing. We can die anytime and fall. Not a big deal for him because he
 will see that it's time for us, no fruit. This is one thing. Another thing that we can
 say that, because he said it's not those 18, they were such singers, it's the whole Galileans.
 They're all like that. And in Jerusalem, it's not those people, it's just everybody there.
 That means that, well, for the Lord, most of people, like almost everybody is bringing
 no fruit and we can see that people just live in their own box. And they don't have this
 relationship with God. They are switched off. And if you switch on, you become super special.
 Put it simple. You become super special. In the eyes of the Lord, you become super special
 because you are awake. You have this switch on and there are so few people like that,
 it's just amazing. So our goal as Christians, we have two goals here. We have one goal is
 not to have, well, if we don't have it switched on yet, we need to switch it on as soon as
 possible. And this is a gift. If it doesn't switch on by itself, then we just pray and
 we ask the Lord to give us this gift that we can have faith in him and live by this
 faith. And once we have it, or if we have it already, we need to make sure that every
 day the light is on. It's not turning off. Every day it's shining the light of our faith
 and our testimony about our faith, our love to Christ and people. And the second important
 calling of the Lord is that we help everybody around us to switch these lights on. Okay.
 Everybody's off. We need to switch it on. How do we do that? The first thing is we need
 to pray strongly, especially for our relatives, our close ones. We need to pray that the Lord
 will give them this gift and we need to ourselves do a testimony as much as good as we can for
 the faith that is real. It's not just ideas. It's changing us. It's bringing a lot of value,
 a lot of light, a lot of good, positive things into our life, into our soul. Okay. We become
 alive. They need to feel that we are alive spiritually and they are not, and there is
 something wrong and they need to do something about it. Okay. They need to find, to discover
 this issue, this problem. But the problem is that we are so much attached to this world.
 Okay. Every day we're running, we're doing something. We're always busy. And at the end
 of the day, okay, what's, what have I done? Nothing. Okay. It's just gone. Okay. Not just
 days, years, decades. Okay. It's all gone because I was willing to have some property,
 some career, something else, but now it's all lost or it doesn't bring me any satisfaction
 and I'm just there. Okay. Without anything. The devil is stealing our time, our energy,
 our talents. Okay. Just stealing it. Okay. He's a thief. So this is why we need to change.
 This is why repentance is so much important that we say, stop. Hey guys. Okay. I am honest
 with myself. I was wrong. Okay. I was putting effort into something that is worthless and
 now I will change. I will live with God. I will pursue him every time. All the day. All
 the days of my life. Okay. Every day. And I will put the kingdom of heaven as the main
 priority in my heart. It will be why I live today. Just to find out more about kingdom
 of God and to have it realize come in my heart in this world. Okay. So this has to be our
 way of life. Uh, so we, everyone, one of us has to become a missionary in that, in that
 sense. Okay. We need to be, um, uh, sharing with everybody. Okay. And we don't need to
 think, okay, what will I say? The Lord said, don't think and don't consider. You just go
 and say, and test, do the testimony. And, uh, the Holy Spirit will let you, uh, have the
 words that you have to say. Okay. And you will say the right words. So let us remember
 about this and also, uh, about the role of the church. Okay. Very often we think, okay,
 the church needs to bring me some peace and tranquility. And, uh, okay. In my trouble
 I have so much trouble in my life. Yeah. I need to calm down, not have depression, not
 to have stress, but this is, um, this is only a part of the truth and it can be exact opposite
 from the truth because the truth is the church has to wake us up. We have to wake up. And
 it's so sad that, uh, very often the most active people who really can, uh, make a change,
 be it in any field in economics, in social life, in politics, those who really care and
 who really do things very often, they are not, uh, people of the church. Hey, why? Because
 we are sleeping, Christians sleeping. Okay. And we think that this is the goal of the
 church to make us asleep. The church has to make us awake. Christ said, I will give you
 my peace, but this peace is not, uh, uh, this, uh, um, sleep. Okay. Spiritual sleep. I just
 sleep. Everything is good. Yes. Everything is so good. Future will bring good things
 and don't worry. And, uh, okay, no, we need to be always awake, always, um, in this spiritual
 pursuit, in this spiritual, uh, struggle, uh, changing ourselves every day, becoming
 stronger, doing the mission and testimony for Christ. So let us, let us think about
 these things. Let us not be busy with the wrong things. Just be honest and say to us,
 that's wrong. I don't want to waste my time from today. Okay. I can recognize everything
 that I've done. Okay. It was just a waste. Yes. It was a waste to form today. You can
 make it not a waste. Okay. So let us, um, know about this. The world is trying the devil
 and the world is trying to steal our time, to steal our energy, to steal our health.
 Okay. For things that don't matter for the Lord. You said, okay, anytime the tower falls
 down and all your properties, you will, you won't, won't need anything already. Okay.
 So you need to turn the switch on and make sure it's on. Okay. Uh, let us ask the Lord
 to give us this faith to strengthen our faith and to make us, uh, dear and capable of bringing
 this message and this love that is in our heart to everyone around us in this world.
 May God bless. Amen.
