 Dear brothers and sisters today I want to say about more practical topic of
 spiritual life - knowing ourselves. Very often we hear about this in psychology,
 in philosophy, but knowing ourselves in Christian faith is completely different
 concept. And of course we know how important this is even though we
 don't do anything to fix it, but we know that if somebody doesn't know who he is
 he is blind. He makes mistakes all the time. He is like the bird hitting the
 window, because he doesn't know what he's doing, what he is capable of. He's
 just hitting this window, keeps doing that all the time. And this is our life
 very often, because we don't know how these passions work. We were not educated
 about ascetism. We were not educated about who are we with relationship
 with God. And we keep making very big mistakes and our life becomes more and
 more miserable and then we discover that okay the whole life is wasted. So today
 let us talk about this and first of all the first difference that we can say is
 that in psychology the main question is psychologically who I am, what are in
 terms of relationship with people, in terms of my character, how do I react to
 some external circumstances, some characteristics of my behavior
 in different situations. I am learning this. And this is pretty much
 related to this world. This is a very rational and very
 down-to-earth approach. But this down-to-earth limits a person as though
 he is just a brain and just a personality. But this personality
 is only limited to this world. But what Christ and the Church, the Holy
 Fathers tell us is the most important that we discover who are we in
 relationship with God. This vertical, this eternal approach, because man is
 spiritual, he is created by the image of God and he is Spirit. And he can
 glorify God in spirit and truth. And this is why it's much more important to
 understand this spiritual and as we said spiritual is connected to physical. It's
 not something different. But this is much more important. We are in front of God
 and who we are. How does God look at us? And we can receive such
 understanding only through grace and through him opening our spiritual eyes.
 So presently almost nobody knows this about themselves. We don't know who
 we are in this respect. And this is why people have so much trouble confessing.
 What to confess? I've done this, this. We can look sometimes at
 children. How they confess. And we can see that they really feel how bad is
 the thing that they've done. That it's not just a check mark. That they've lost
 something. Because for them it's more intuitive. When they think about
 their sins it's much more intuitive. For us it becomes this, this, this. Check mark, check
 mark. It's very rationalistic. So how to understand this? We need to
 understand that myself in front of God who am I and what I am. And we'll
 discover that we are really far from him. And that we are ourselves
 nothing good. But with him we can become everything. But we need to
 understand this that we are nothing good. We need to humble ourselves.
 And this is a great talent. And we know that most people don't like criticism by
 others. We get uncomfortable when somebody is saying something about us.
 But this is when they say things that we don't see ourselves. That helps us
 to know ourselves in psychological respect and also in the respect with our
 relationship with God. So let's go just one by one. First of all we can say
 there are three main teachers who can teach us, who can open our eyes on this
 matter. The first one is the gospel. The gospel, the Word of God, what he said
 and what he's done. When we read the gospel it's as though we look in the mirror, in
 the mirror and we see ourselves. When we look at this mirror we see this
 gap between God and ourselves. And we discover that we are far. And this
 we need to be very honest to ourselves. And we need to say I want to be like
 that. And this is my goal. So this is one of these mirrors. Another mirror is
 others. Relationship with people with whom we live. And especially not
 just this social relationship. But most importantly in light of gospel
 how do we live with others according to the gospel. And whether we are
 willing to help, we're willing to sacrifice ourselves, we are humble when
 somebody is criticizing us or we get angry. And the Lord said that blessed
 are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. And this righteousness
 this also means for truth and for true vision of ourselves. Understanding who we
 are. And this is why when we are and when our weaknesses or sins are exposed by
 others we need to receive joy in our heart. Then we will be blessed. Okay and
 this is why we have a church community of saints. It's supposed to be
 community of saints in where everybody interacts and exposing sins. If somebody
 lives with some sin and he thinks that this is not a sin he doesn't see this. He
 doesn't see that his relationship with God is broken. Okay be it I don't know
 what. He is not honest, he is not respectful to parents, he's anything. Okay
 he thinks that this is how he is. Okay he doesn't see he's blind. And the community
 of saints has to make him discover this. Okay with love, okay with compassion. But
 the goal is to have this system of checks and balances. That others will
 help us. And if our faith is weakened we're struggling and we don't trust in
 in the Lord. Others need to tell us hey you don't know how to pray let's pray
 together. You'll see how to pray how to ask the Lord for his grace. So this is a
 very important. Okay our relationship especially with the people of God with
 the members of the church. These of course others people also very important.
 The Lord can speak through us even through animal. Okay we remember in the
 Old Testament through an ox okay he spoke to the Prophet. So anyone especially
 children okay we disregard you and they don't know you. This is wrong. Okay the
 child can tell us things that nobody else can. Okay and God may be telling us
 something through anyone. That's why we need to have this fear of God. Okay one
 of the signs that someone has a vision of himself is the fear of God that he
 has. Okay fear of God not fear of people not fear of circumstances that he will
 not have money and stuff but fear of God and now almost nobody has it. Okay like
 living as though God is watching us we're facing him. Well this is one of the
 signs of getting healthy. Okay and the third teacher is our own conscience and
 we have repentance for this purpose. So this is what we do. Okay we need to see
 that we are far willing to repent and we need to change. Okay repent turn back to
 God go back to to the Lord change your ways change your mind. Okay okay for
 profound deep break your old self. Okay we need to know our old self that's
 emerging. Okay now the guy is is is emerged again so and we tell him go back.
 Okay so let us know about these things this is why we have fasting in the
 church. The fasting is helping us it's it's not just to give some rules okay
 don't do this don't eat that but this is to for us to help us discover who we are
 teach us repentance and teach us go back and live with the Lord. So there are so
 many people suffering because of not knowing these things. Okay these basic
 ascetic rules principles of Christian life we now some people know about this
 but they don't use it also it's another problem. Knowing something doesn't mean
 anything if you don't put this to life to use. So we can say for example a
 practical now practical example example most people have some kind of sorrow in
 their life usually it's something big or they will have at some point okay maybe
 it's a divorce say okay or they are lonely they don't meet anyone okay they
 they have this loneliness some people they have some trouble with their
 children okay very often it's family oriented and the person feels alone okay
 or there may be any kind of stress coming from job coming from the place
 where you live from anywhere okay anything and the person doesn't know
 that he is he has this vainglory passions when we don't know ourselves we
 don't really know about our passions and this vainglory tells him okay you can do
 this you are important you okay you should set these goals and you will reach
 them and the person has this vainglory and he goes and does and he fails and
 then he is he is disappointed he failed in marriage in somewhere else he failed
 okay of course he tries to blame it all for others okay but if we are honest we
 will know that we are the main reason for all the problems that we have okay
 and what does he do later okay there are two ways people fight with this this
 sorrow that they have okay depression okay they either get really depressed
 and gloomy or they get really angry and aggressive basically there are two ways
 to to to sort of react that people they react as a result of this okay this
 sorrow and then to fight with these people try to to press this to suppress
 this thing okay they some people drink become alcoholic some people go party
 every day some people watch movies play computer games okay very often they
 have some sinful practice some people have okay adultery okay and they find
 some something like that okay so there are different ways and it's pretty much
 related with sin most of the time okay it's good if they can have some hobby
 that's not sinful okay to sort of suppress this somehow but the most
 important method okay is for them to discover if this is happening with me
 why because of those passions okay because I don't have God in my heart I
 never learned to establish relationship with him and okay big surprise is
 awaiting for me when my life will be over okay it is time now to establish
 this relationship and to find that Christ and our all hope is in him and he
 can fulfill everything we need but we need to learn how to fight with those
 passions okay so let us see let us see that this is happening every day every
 day people commit suicide today they drink they do drugs and many other
 things this is not some theory okay this is happening with us maybe also with
 everybody around us most people around us even if they seem to be happy okay so
 let us be very serious about this the devil is trying to steal our life to
 make us go astray and we need to be knowledgeable about these things even if
 we don't learn them from childhood okay we it's time to learn these things now
 basics of Orthodox ascetics and spiritual life and to open these eyes
 spiritual eyes so that we can see ourselves and not have some passions
 controlling us may Lord help every one of you on this path and give you joy and
 give you a spiritual health and blessing I mean
