 Dear brothers and sisters, today the world, the Chinese world, celebrates the Chinese New Year, okay?
 And I'm now in Taiwan and all the shops, everything almost is closed and people celebrate, okay?
 People go to their homes and meet with their families and everybody is celebrating this for at least one week.
 And some people for two weeks, okay?
 So, this is important and as we see now the Chinese communities grow across the globe in many countries.
 So, for a Christian, well, especially for a Chinese Christian, okay?
 Or Taiwanese or Hong Kongese, okay? Anyone who speaks Chinese, all right?
 What does it mean, okay? What does this feast mean and how he could celebrate this feast, okay?
 And this is, for those who are far away from all the Chinese culture and Chinese topics,
 this can be a practical mission, a missionary hint, okay, that we can use in no matter what we do, okay?
 This is something that a missionary approach to things, to realities that we are facing.
 And we can see that this has been practiced in the church for many years, okay?
 From antiquity when pagan feasts and social traditions, fall traditions, were sort of baptized, okay?
 They were given Christian content, okay? The forms were preserved but the content, the meaning was changed.
 So, the same thing we propose for the Chinese New Year, okay?
 First of all, what is Chinese New Year, okay? Where does it come from?
 The earliest remark is from the Warring States period, that's about 300-400 BC, okay, before Christ.
 So, that's like in ancient times there was one kingdom which had a ritual that's called Dan-no.
 And this Dan-no ritual involved chasing out illness on the last day of the lunar year, okay?
 There was a lunar calendar and on the last day of that lunar year there was this chasing away of the illness, okay?
 All kinds of illness, okay? And this tradition, this ritual became widespread eventually
 because that one of those kingdoms became the ruling kingdom for the whole China, okay, the Qing kingdom.
 And this eventually became a feast for all the Chinese and it meant greeting of the spring
 and asking for blessings and for fortune during the new lunar year, okay?
 Because it was the beginning of the spring, everything is blooming and farmers will do their crops
 and they will plant stuff. So, it's also related, the whole lunar cycle is related to the agricultural cycle, okay?
 And we can recall that in the Christian church, okay, we have the greatest feast of Pascha
 and it's also related to the beginning of spring and that was beginning of the year, okay?
 And this month of Nisan that now is roughly in March, okay, was the beginning of the new year.
 And it's also life is coming back, okay? And the true life is coming from resurrected Christ, okay?
 And that's why we celebrate Pascha, the resurrection of Christ during this time, okay? It's connected to this.
 So, you know, we see that it's basically a very similar meaning.
 So, if you are looking for something sort of equivalent in the Chinese culture,
 something equivalent to Orthodox, to church, Christian culture, you will find Easter, okay?
 Pascha, the resurrection of Christ, okay? This is our greatest feast.
 But we cannot do Pascha two times, okay? We don't propose, okay, now we celebrate Pascha
 during Chinese New Year. We cannot do it, okay? It's too late now, okay, to make such a change.
 So, what we can propose, what we can do, is we can give gratitude to God during this time,
 during this Chinese New Year, for the last year, and ask his blessing for the upcoming year, okay?
 We can do prayer service, okay? Moledin, prayer service. Even if we're at home with our families,
 like most Chinese this time, we can still do that, and we can pray on our own,
 and give gratitude to our Lord. But this is not everything, okay?
 Well, we see, as I have mentioned, that this feast is connected to agriculture, and this lunar cycle,
 the whole year. So, it doesn't have by itself a very deep religious meaning, okay?
 It's basically a calendar thing, the agricultural cycle thing. But for people,
 it was always unnatural to have just that, okay? Not to have any religious content
 to the feast that they celebrate. So, the Chinese culture embraced all kinds of
 religious and astrology, okay? All these 12 zodiac signs, okay? Now it's cow, okay, or bull,
 whatever you call it, okay? The New Year, the year of bull, okay? And bringing all kinds of different
 beliefs, okay? Every dish that is made on this feast is to celebrate, not to celebrate, to
 have some kind of significance, okay? For example, the fish is made, and this fish represents that
 you will have surplus next year and every year, okay, of everything, okay? You'll be rich, you'll
 be prosperous, and stuff like that, okay? So, a Christian, of course, he doesn't believe these
 things, okay? He doesn't believe, okay, now I eat this fish and I'll be prosperous, okay?
 If he believes this, it's not really a Christian, okay? This is a superstition.
 And he doesn't believe in zodiacs. For him, this cow doesn't mean much, okay? I don't know if it
 does mean anything for you, but not for me at least, okay? So, a Christian would feel that now,
 okay, we're gathering together, my family, and celebrating, but they have a vacation,
 maybe a two-week vacation. What is it all about, okay? A Christian would ask himself. And we
 need to find a purpose for that. And what I propose is to celebrate the edict of Milan
 on this time. And you might be surprised to hear this, okay? But the reason for that
 is that the edict of Milan was also done in February, okay? And we know it's by Saint
 Constantine. The emperor was also Emperor Licinius who signed it. And the whole Roman empire and
 many other nations, they became Christian. And this is the world we live in up till now, that
 most countries, they received Christianity, but now are living from it. But anyhow, so
 this event is super important for the church and for every one of us, because it meant
 coming of the new era. It meant the victory of Christianity over all the paganism,
 which was like the sickness that needs to be extracted, then it was chased away, expelled,
 okay, as in this Chinese ancient dano ritual, okay, expelling these illnesses. So, this is
 it's very important for the church, okay? It's supposed to be celebrated this time. For some
 reason, it's not, okay? This is a bad thing, okay? We need to remember things like
 this. It's super important for us. And this is also a calling to whole China, that also
 it needs to embrace and welcome Christianity, Christian faith. And this is the key to success
 in the eyes of God, okay? And this will bring a great joy and meaning to every Christian who does
 celebrate this event, okay? No matter in which country he is. For him, it will not be, okay,
 just a bunch of traditions and rituals and not just social function, but it would have
 an important meaning that he will feel. Even though maybe his family doesn't understand that,
 okay, they celebrate bull and stuff like that. But if we don't do this, if we don't make this
 emphasis and don't offer this content to this celebration, this event, then it will do the
 opposite, okay? It will bring all these bulls and mice and snakes and all those things into
 the Christian world. And Christians will be celebrating these bulls and all that stuff,
 okay? Coming. So we need to be aware of that. If we don't Christianize paganism, paganism will
 paganize us, okay? As simple as that. So let us have true faith in God. And we know that with him
 we've got everything, okay? So and let us pray that he gives us blessing and he gives us his wisdom
 and faith to win, to conquer anything and subject this to him, to his glory and to the joy. I mean,
 May God bless you!
