 Dear brothers and sisters, there are two ways of reacting to life. There is a passive way
 and an active way, generally speaking. But we always recommend people, don't be passive,
 don't be gloomy, just do things, be positive about life, you will do it, you can make it.
 But the problem is deeper than that. The problem is that behind these two
 attitudes, very often there is one of the passions, one of the eight big passions,
 the passion of despondency or dejection. We know by the teaching of holy fathers that there are
 eight basic passions. Usually passion is not "I have passion for sport" or "I have passion for
 women", not that kind of passion. Passion in the ascetic sense, it's something that is making me
 suffer. It comes from pashol, a Greek verb, something in my nature, in my heart that is
 distorted and makes me suffer from it. So when we have say lust or gluttony, this is passion that
 we want to possess, something. But passions are not only like that, like those carnal passions
 that we think of. There are passions that we don't really notice if we don't know about it and
 we're not taught about ascetism from childhood or from our Christian elders, teachers, mentors.
 So the passion of despondency is a passion that basically means that person doesn't have God
 in his heart and doesn't want to have God. He's rejecting to have God in his heart and that's why
 there is this emptiness that needs to be fulfilled by something. It can be expressed in a negative
 passive way. A person doesn't want to do anything, he is very lazy, he is willing to sleep, he is
 trying to escape this life, he doesn't want to leave, he is very negative about things. We have
 so many suicides every day. This is one of the ways of expressing this passion. But another way
 is to try to substitute this emptiness, this feeling. This is called depression
 in the secular language. To substitute this by something. We are recommended by our friends or
 by psychologists. Do something, sports or walk in the fresh air or maybe eat something, maybe that
 makes you happy. You'll forget about your pain that you have. And if this doesn't work and it
 doesn't work for a long time, then we are recommended now just some social things. For
 example, go to a party or to some conference or to some concert, listen to some music,
 communicate with your friends, call someone just to talk to him. These are social things
 that belong to soul. First is body carnal, this is to the soul level. But this usually doesn't work
 also. Most often this doesn't work. Later a person has the same thing and if whatever he was doing is
 sinful also, then it becomes even worse. Because he gets even further away from God. So
 these are the usual treatments that are offered. Of course, not everybody has this passion so
 strongly. The fathers tell us that everyone has some major passion and all others are also there
 present, but they're not as strong as the main one. So for somebody greed is the main passion.
 He is motivated by greed mainly. So he would have this despondency, but it won't be that major.
 So he is motivated to do so many things by greed. He wants to get more money, more financial power,
 more properties, whatever. So now we're talking about despondency. So the way to overcome this
 is to live with God. As simple as that. But it's not that simple in the life, in the real life.
 What should be done? Okay, first of all we need to be ready. We need to know that not many people
 choose this way. To the way of spiritual health, the way of righteousness, goodness, virtue. It's
 not that many people are seeking to be with God. Most people don't want this. They want something
 else and they suffer. But we choose this path. We want to follow this path. And what do we do?
 Very often we say yes I'm Christian. I believe in Christ. I read the gospel. But I don't change.
 I have still the same passions. If I confess, I always confess the same things. Nothing happens
 and people get disappointed by God. They are disappointed of the church. They are leaving
 the church. So what practical suggestions can we make? Okay, we can talk a lot about this. But
 today I want to say very simple things. Six simple things. First of all, we need to be masters
 of our belly. And what is below belly? Everybody knows because the one doesn't come without the
 other. First is belly. We need to master. If we always eat a lot or like very tasty food and stuff
 like that, we don't limit ourselves in this way. We don't put any restraints on that. Then we will
 have the other problem, the last problem. We won't be able to control it, to sustain it. So
 these things. If we don't master this, we cannot be truly Christians and children of God. We fall off
 from this path. We need to be honest to ourselves. So when we are eating a lot and we will
 not have the grace of God, we will not have His blessing, His guidance. And this is what we want.
 We want to become children of God. It's not given. It is given if we are ready to receive it.
 When we say our Father who art in heaven, we imply that we are His children.
 But do we live as His children? This is a big question. Do other people say yes,
 I feel that He is child of God? Or most likely they think something else. That we're children
 of our desires and maybe even deviled. So we need to live like children of God. And that's
 when we get His blessing and His guidance and He cares and protects and takes us to His kingdom.
 That's why we remember the tower fell 18 dead and Christ said to me, if you don't repent,
 everybody will, you will all die like that. So this brings us to the second thing, to repentance.
 And usually we don't know how to repent. We say stories, I've done wrong, this, this, this,
 and then we do it again. But repenting means completely changing our life. And this implies
 action. Right away, I was not righteous, I got money from somewhere. Right away give this money
 double to this person or to, if you cannot do it to poor people, just give twice as much right away.
 Okay. And okay, whatever we repent immediately, we need to prove this by our action. Okay.
 Immediately we do this, otherwise it's not a repentance. And third is we need to love
 righteousness and God and kingdom of heaven. We need to think about God all the time.
 If we don't think about Him during the day when we work, when we do things, then we are not His
 children. This as simple as that. And Christ has to be in everything we do. You see, whatever we do,
 we read, we speak to people, we work, whatever we do has to be somehow related to Christ.
 Otherwise it is meaningless, it is a waste of time. Okay. And this is harmful to our soul, it will die
 off. So this is important. And fourth is that we need to control what we say and it's better not to
 say too much. Okay. The wisdom is in silence, in being able to keep silence and to listen,
 especially in the church. What other faithful are saying. Okay. They talk about God, they
 share their experience of faith, but we usually talk a lot. We just want to say things and
 we are so important so everybody has to listen to us. This is our sin. And this makes us stupid.
 Okay. And also about stupidity. It is only someone who understands that he is ignorant. He becomes
 not ignorant. So if you think you are stupid, that's when you begin to be not stupid. This
 is interesting because usually we think we're smart. Okay. But we're stupid because we think
 like that. This is related. Okay. And the Holy Fathers also say that if you thoughtlessly throw
 a stone, say at a person or at someone's car, somewhere, it's not that bad as you would
 thoughtlessly say a word. Thoughtlessly say a word is worse than thoughtlessly throw a stone.
 So especially if this word harms someone. So we need to really be very
 humble in what we say. And Christ is saying, may every word of yours be with salt, be with faith,
 be with thought, first thing then say. And especially if we talk about God,
 we need to have even prayer before we say something. Otherwise we will harm others. They
 will hear false things about God. Okay. And we need to leave what we say.
 Okay. Fifth is related to what we've said that we don't plan good things. If we do deeds of mercy,
 if we help people, if we do something for Christ, don't plan it for future. Okay. Yes. Maybe next
 week I will do no, just do it right away. Just do it right now. This is very important. Otherwise
 we'll be split and we will be okay. All our intentions will be spoiled. Just do it right
 now. Whatever you can. Don't leave it for tomorrow. Number six is we don't desire anything
 that is not worthy of God. Okay. Don't have too much willingness to gain something
 that say God himself doesn't care about. Okay. Don't ask in the prayer things of earthly nature
 that is not related to spirituality, to kingdom of heaven. Of course we need to earn money. We need
 to provide to our children. We need to have many responsibilities, but this doesn't become the main
 goal and content of our lives. Okay. We need to split these two priorities. They are different.
 Okay. And this is another topic. What do we ask for in prayer from God? This will be another video.
 So we need to be, to do what is worthy of God, to have in our mind only what is worthy of God.
 Sinful things. Don't even think about it. Okay. Some dirty, some sinful things. Don't even think
 about those things. This is what God wants. Otherwise we will spoil ourselves. We'll be filthy.
 Our spirit, our soul will be defiled by all that stuff. Okay. So the God wants us to be clean,
 wants us to be pure, wants us to be simple as doves. Okay. As children's small babies to have
 the, to have this clean heart and to be honest and true in what we say and what we do.
 And to love others, to have nothing negative about anyone, to have no enemies and to have
 no regrets, no grudges about life, to be thankful to God for everything. And in this way, we will be
 children of the most high God and his blessing will be with us. Let us put effort into living
 like this, into thinking like this, and we will become true Christians. Let us also not think
 that we are Christians unless we contain those passions. If some of those passions still overcome
 very often, we are not worthy of Christ yet. Okay. We're, we need to put this goal, to set this goal
 there. That we need to get better. We need to improve. Okay. And the Lord will help us through
 his grace and his blessing. Amen.
