 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about activity in the Church, of the Church and of every Christian.
 Why are we very much passive? We are very often passive in the mission, in any activity because we have not yet understood what does it mean to follow Christ.
 He said, "If you want to be my disciples, you need to take up your cross and follow me."
 And we don't understand, practically speaking, what does it mean? And this is why we live in some form of slavery.
 And if we ourselves are enslaved by something, we cannot go preach freedom to anyone if we are enslaved ourselves.
 And you will ask me, "What are we enslaved?" We are free people. We can do whatever we want.
 But if that would be so, there would be no calling of Christ to call everyone, to take up his cross and follow him.
 We remember disciples, they were fishermen, he said, "Follow me." They left everything, they followed him.
 Then there was this rich man who came and asked, "What else can I do to inherit the kingdom of heaven?"
 And the Lord told him, "Just sell everything you have and follow me." He was not free, he was a free man.
 He had a lot of property and stuff, but he was not free spiritually. This is why he had to abandon all of that and follow Christ.
 And what does it mean practically for us in our daily life, in our attitude towards life?
 This means that we need to learn how to exit from the circle of comfort.
 We live in some world or we try to build some world that will be comfortable for us.
 And this is called Egypt. This is called spiritual Egypt.
 And unless we conquer this Egypt, we will not be able to follow Christ.
 And this Egypt can have different forms. For some people this means, "Okay, I buy a lot of real estate.
 And I rent this real estate and I have an income, I have a stable life, I have a comfortable life when I get old and stuff."
 Then they become slaves because they need to care only about this.
 Some people say, "Okay, I want to immigrate to another country. I live in another country, it would be a better life."
 And that becomes slavery for them. For other people, they want to marry someone because of their financial reasons.
 And that becomes their slavery. The devil is always offering something in return for something else.
 Nothing comes for free. And this trade is usually we think that we gain something but we lose our true spiritual freedom.
 And we get further and further away from God. And this is the problem of church secularization.
 This is when the church tries to rely too much on the government or on financial resources, on properties, on something else.
 And this makes the church less and less look like a church.
 It becomes more and more just some kind of organization or just some club.
 And this is what happened with many Christians. This is what happened with the Roman church that relied on power and needed central government and total control of everything.
 And it became similar to those Jews of the times of Christ, which said they control everything. And the Lord just canceled all of that and destroyed the temple.
 And the Old Testament religion ceased to exist. The heirs were the Christians, the Christian church.
 But this temptation did not just go away. This temptation came inside the church and it still is inside.
 And there are two ways. One way is this totalitarian way, let's say.
 Another way of slavery is individualism. When people say, I don't care about anyone else, just me.
 I decide I am free and that's it. And then what happens is that a man becomes slave of his old self.
 This is what we call internal Pharaoh, internal Pharaoh that lives in us, that became our ruler.
 And we cannot jump out. We cannot break out from this because we think this is the standard of everything, of interpreting Bible, of believing me, myself.
 And this brings us to the groups, most Protestant groups that become just like clubs.
 People that have similar to yours ideas about God unite into so-called churches and usually it gets more and more like sect.
 Because people, when they don't have internal connection to the body of Christ, to the true church of Christ, they don't have this mystical connection.
 They embrace all kinds of wrong ideas and they become like a sect, like a cult.
 Because all of that comes from our own fallen nature, our fantasies about religion, about spirituality, from evil spirits.
 And there are numerous, numerous sects, cults and heresies like that.
 So these temptations of internal Pharaoh or this external Pharaoh, they are with us, they're still there.
 And we have it in the Orthodox Church also, maybe not as bad, but we still have it.
 And this is what we need to overcome in order for us to become active in the mission.
 Because when we preach something, we want to preach freedom and not slavery.
 Being slaves ourselves how can we preach freedom to others?
 So very often missions of other religions, other than Orthodox Christians, they are very active.
 Why? Because they rely on some form of slavery, some form of external resource.
 Be it money, be it power, influence, some kind of external resource that makes other people have no choice, basically, to receive, to accept, embrace something.
 But we remember that Christ had brought a very different spirit.
 Christ never used any kind of external resource and even miracles, he's done it only to those who already believed.
 And to others no miracles, he avoided and he did not even say that he is Messiah, it was a secret.
 And he wanted people to discover that and to have their faith, bring them to faith and to follow Christ, to follow him.
 And eventually salvation belongs to such people who are free, who can break away this Pharaoh.
 So, what other situations are there with this slavery?
 We have most of isms, communism, socialism, capitalism, nationalism, they are related to some form of slavery.
 Now we have in religion, we have Catholicism, we have Protestantism, there is some form of slavery in there.
 I've already talked about it.
 And this makes us discover that we need to be brave enough to exit from this comfort.
 Because slavery may be very comfortable, like Egypt, slavery is not something bad at that time.
 You have food, you have everything and this is actually what was discussed in the Davos forum in this January, last month.
 That the whole world has to go in that direction, no private property, no privacy, but full happiness.
 You have everything you need and you are happy with your life.
 This new utopia that they have and basically this is this form of slavery developed to its logical completion.
 So, this will be the kingdom of Antichrist, which eventually one day it will come.
 So, we should not try to search for comfortable life.
 For this life that I have no problems, I have financial stability, everything else.
 We need to search for kingdom of heaven.
 And we should avoid not only becoming slaves of comfort, of consumption, of our job, but we need to also not to become pharaohs.
 Because this is another temptation, pharaoh is a slave himself, a slave of his own passions.
 So, pharaoh is, say, you have some authority over other people, maybe your children, your employees, your co-workers, you have some authority over them.
 And you treat them not as father, not as loving superior, maybe you have higher responsibilities, but you treat them as this legalistic way.
 I have the right to tell you this, and this is how it goes.
 And we become like this pharaoh, we enslave people below us.
 And this also makes our family, it's not a church as it's supposed to be, a small church, our organization, anything.
 It becomes just another totalitarian thing.
 Or maybe it's a club, everybody is sort of free, but sort of not free, because we don't nip any member, it can go away anytime.
 So, it's just a club. So, let us be very brave not to be afraid, to lose this comfort, not to be nervous, to be strong soldiers of Christ, and to preach the spiritual freedom that Christ has given to us.
 May our Lord give us a blessing, and give us this eagerness, this dairiness to put the kingdom of heaven first and foremost in our priorities.
 God bless. Stay away from slavery.
