 Dear friends, now it's very often that Christians don't like each other because of political reasons,
 that they have different political views. But Christ said that people will know that you are
 my disciples if you have love among yourselves, among each other. And that is what we need to
 remember, that if we don't like someone because of his political position, then we are not yet
 disciples of Christ. We need to love even our enemies. And this practically brings us to a
 question, what is my relationship to politics? And there are two mistakes. One mistake is
 very big involvement in politics. When people are putting this as the very big high priority,
 and this becomes for them more important than prayer, than serving Christ, than the
 commandment to love your enemies. And this is the biggest problem, when people are too much
 involved or interested in politics, get involved in it, immersed. So it's a bigger problem even
 when this is with a church or group of Christians, when the church is getting involved or tied up in
 some political agenda. And this we also call that the salt becomes not salty. So this is one
 problem. Another problem is when people say, well, I believe in God and I care completely,
 don't care about any politics. Absolutely, I don't care about government, country, I am above all
 that. And this has no importance whatsoever. This position, well, it's better than the first one,
 but still it has some shortcomings. Well, because some things which pertain to this earthly life,
 for example, which school your children will go, or what will you have for breakfast today.
 This you won't find it in the Bible. It doesn't say in the Bible which bus to take or any other
 things, but we know that practically this is important. Because if we take wrong bus or we
 eat something wrong for breakfast, maybe we'll have some problem, health problem.
 We know that this is somewhat important, but this is incomparable in priority to our search for
 faith for Christ. What I will say to God today during my morning prayer is much more important
 than what will I eat today for breakfast this morning. So I need to set this priority in the
 right order. And if it's in the right order, then everything else will fall in place.
 So for us, the first and foremost is the search of the kingdom of heaven and the truth of God.
 That is what our mind, what our heart is fully filled with, so concerned, obsessed about. Any
 words you can say. This is what is our heart. If you really love someone, you think about him or
 her all the time. And this is what we need to have towards God, towards Christ. So everything else,
 we cannot say it's completely not important, but it's much less important. And we know that if
 somebody loves someone, he maybe even forgets to brush his teeth sometimes because he's rushing to
 buy some flowers or something. We might even be like that. We see apostles when they were doing
 mission, they even did not have time to eat. So sometimes even like that. So the political issues,
 agenda can be described by the words of Christ that give caesars to Caesar and gods to God.
 When he was asked about whether Jewish people need to give tax to the Romans or not.
 So what does this mean though? This means that we are not trying to establish a government which
 will be the kingdom of heaven on earth. This will never happen. But we can be involved in the
 political discussion or agenda because we care about the country to some extent. We know that
 we cannot make a big change. Maybe some of you can, but normal people, we cannot
 have a tremendous influence on the politics. But we can contribute in some way. If the government
 is doing something too wrong, we can criticize, we can say. But this has to have no passions
 in it. We should do it without passions, without hatred, without blaming all the time everyone.
 First of all, we know that we blame ourselves and we need to remain humble. We need to remain
 in the repentance, knowing our own sins. And only then, if we humble ourselves, the Lord will tell
 us what should we say about politics. So right now the world is getting into a very unstable
 time politically, economically, because of many issues. We know now the world is changing. So
 there will be many changes in politics, in political systems, in many countries. And we need
 to get ready right now for what will happen maybe sooner than later. And to get ready now, what we
 need is we need to learn to hear the voice of God in ourselves. So that when this time of temptation,
 the time of darkness will come, it will be darkness because it will be people fighting with
 each other. It will be a big opportunity for many people who are waiting for maybe decades to grasp
 the power. They will be always fighting big time. So at that time, when that comes, we Christians
 need to listen not to our own desires and the wind in our head. We need to be able to listen to
 Christ at that moment. And the Christ may tell very different things to different people. To
 some people, he will tell that just pray from morning till night, every day and during the
 night. Pray that this nation, the people don't die. Pray for the good. Other people, maybe they
 will hear a calling that they need some form of participation in what is happening. But they will
 participate with the blessing of God. They will be preserved, protected by God in what they do.
 And they will do the testimony in the right way. The Christian testimony. Because this will be also
 time of big opportunity for the Christians, for true Christians to witness their love towards
 Christ. Because when it's very dark, the time is dark. People are angry. People are fighting.
 If somebody is different, if he is driven by Christian love for enemies, compassion to others,
 care for people who are maybe your political adversaries, you can bring the true message
 of love, of Christ's love to these people. The light will be much brighter at that time
 when it's dark everywhere else. So this is a great opportunity for us to do the testimony for Christ.
 And maybe those political rivals that you think they are rivals, you think that if they get to
 the power, it will be a real hell, it will be really bad. Maybe when they see you, maybe they
 meet you and they see your love towards them despite everything, they will also believe in
 Christ and they will follow Christ and they will maybe gain power and influence many people on
 their path towards God, towards Christ. So you never know how the Lord arranges everything.
 So what we need to do is to stay calm if this happens, to be with Christ, to have his kingdom
 in our hearts, to be his servants, his instruments. Not to become instruments of devil through
 passions, through all kinds of deceit, to be servants of Christ our Lord during these times.
 And this will bring us to ministry and will bring him to glory. We need to glorify him.
 The problem of any government, any country, any nation that it's trying to glorify itself.
 We are the best. We are the best party. We are the best country. We are the best nation.
 For Christian, no. When the martyrs were asked, "What is your name?" They said, "I am Christian.
 My name is Christian." They were asked, "What is your nation?" They said, "My nation is Christian."
 They were asked, "Who is your master, the ruler that you are serving? Who is your political
 leader?" And they said, "My leader is Jesus Christ." So this is what is important, the most
 important for true Christians. And not, "I'm whatever nation, I'm whatever citizen of whatever
 thing, or I'm socialist, I'm a capitalist, I'm monarchist." All of that is secondary.
 We are, first of all, Christians. And this for us is everything. Let us be like that. Let us
 feel like that, not just have this idea. Feel like that, and live like that. And this darkness will
 not overcome the church, and Christ will be with us till the end of times. He will give us strength.
 He will give us the true words that we need to do our testimony in front of all that world that is
 outside in the darkness. May Lord help every one of you, and give you blessing, give you wisdom,
 and health to you and your families. God bless.
