 Dear friends, today I want to say a few words about individualism and conformism.
 Very often we think that we are now very individualistic, this world is very individualistic, very free, very democratic.
 But eventually we will see that this individualism becomes the same thing as the crowd thinking, mass thinking.
 And this is why mass media is called mass media. It's just a mass, it's just like a mass of stuff and people become this mass.
 If you don't want to become this mass, the only way, it's not individualism to prove all the time that you are different, no.
 The true way not to become a mass is to be with Christ. This is the only way to have Christ awaken you and give you his own thinking and mindset.
 And we saw that in Christ's time there was this crowd following him and this crowd sometimes was supporting him when he went to Jerusalem.
 Then all of a sudden they were saying crucify him. So this crowd, Christ himself, he also said that how long he can endure this.
 Because they always want something for themselves, they're only looking for some gain, some benefit.
 And this is the majority of people and unfortunately people become crowd.
 And we will discover that we ourselves are part of the crowd very often in many respects.
 For example, if we watch TV too much, we get our ideas from the news and our world view from the news media, then we will become a crowd.
 We will impose some ideas and we will think that it's our own ideas, but in fact we'll be just part of the crowd.
 However, if we decide no, I don't want that, and now many young people they watch internet, YouTube, they don't watch TV, they do their own research.
 And you may say well you see these guys are not mass, they are very free and individualistic.
 But in fact our time becomes even much more mass than it used to be.
 Because now people get in those social networks and the main mindset becomes this narcissism.
 People are enjoying how they look, they make photos of themselves, they make stories about what they do every step.
 And they become completely closed upon their own little world.
 And they might think that they are very free, but all of that is directed by the old self.
 This fallen nature of men and people even in those marginal cultures, like these hippies or some rock, whatever, those marginal people,
 they also become all the same, very similar, even though they have different tattoos, they have different hairstyles,
 but it's all the same spirit, all the same mindset. Why?
 Because if we are not with Christ, we will be falling into some kind of category, we will fall into some kind of behavior.
 And this is why the modern psychology is mainly behaviorist sociology.
 And that means that it can describe behavior of all different parts of society with economic factors.
 If the salaries go up, people have more children, if the price of something goes down, then they will change their consumption,
 they will buy different stuff, they will go to more high level universities,
 and everything is getting more and more programized or can be forecasted with more accuracy.
 This statistical discrepancy becomes smaller because people become more and more determined by external situation.
 And the task of God, he gave us this talent, this ability to become creators as he is himself creator.
 And this is discussion about free will and creating every new day, not conditioned by anything else, just by your creative potential.
 And practically speaking, what does it mean? It can mean that instead of posting photos of myself,
 I may be trying to do mission for the Lord, sacrificing my time, not because I'm getting paid,
 but because I have higher values and I'm motivated by these values and not by some external economic or social factors.
 Because this behavior of science is the main assumption is that society is like a plant.
 The more sunlight you give to a plant, it will grow in a certain way. The more nutrients you give to this plant, it will grow in a certain way.
 And it has to be like that, because it's just determined by the laws of nature.
 So human kind people become more and more like that. They think that they are getting more and more freedom, but they're not.
 And this becomes more like what? This becomes like a herd of animals rushing to some place because of some things, some factors.
 And if you catch one of those, it's more like goats. If you catch one of those goats, you will be very stubborn.
 You will not want to do what you ask him to do. It's very stubborn.
 And that is what we feel in the many people. Individualistic, he is against this.
 You cannot take my freedom. I'm free. But when something happens, everybody runs in the same direction.
 And this is what will happen in the end of times. Everybody will just rush to that direction.
 So from now on, we need to see in ourselves, am I part of a crowd in some sense?
 Do I think in the same way as people, some other people, many people?
 If yes, then maybe it's a problem, because Christ has to give us completely different values and different worldview.
 That is completely different from anyone else in this world.
 So I'm not yet determined by Christ, by love towards God. And that means I am part of this crowd.
 Even though I think that I'm sort of super free and individualistic.
 And this world also gives us this value. He will tell us you have to value yourself.
 If you don't value yourself, others will not value you. They will have no respect for you.
 But this is a lie of this world. Because the Lord tells us that whoever exalts himself, he will be humbled.
 And whoever humbles himself, puts himself low, he will be exalted.
 So it is only when we break this selfish and the narcissist self, only then we become servants of Christ.
 And we can receive from him the wisdom and the power that we need of life.
 And we can receive from him even the glory of God.
 It will come only when we humble ourselves and have no super opinion about ourselves.
 Only then we can become servants of God.
 May the Lord help all of you to escape this spirit that is trying to trick us and to put us all into this crowd, this herd.
 And be truly free in Christ. And make true decisions, right decisions and right choices.
 And to serve our Lord to his glory, I mean.
 May God bless all of you today.
