 Dear brothers and sisters, today's topic is the Revelation of Saint-Apostol John.
 This is the last book of the New Testament, which is very mysterious and has a different style,
 different language than other books of the Bible.
 And this is placed at the end because this is a prophecy about the end of this world and what will come after this end.
 The new heaven and new earth and the kingdom, the eternal kingdom of God's righteousness and truth, which we all expect and crave.
 And it is important to have the right attitude towards this book and to know what it is and how to read it, how to approach this book.
 In the beginning, we read in chapter 1 verse 3, "Blessed is he that reads, and they that hear the words of this prophecy,
 and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand."
 So the time is very close, the time of the second coming of Jesus Christ.
 And this is why everybody who reads and listens to these words, and more importantly, who keeps them,
 we need not only to listen to this, we need to live by this, is blessed.
 If we want to be blessed, we need to pay special attention to this book and what is said in here.
 Because some people say, "Well, you need just to be a good Christian, you need to be not selfish,
 you need to know commandments of Christ." And this is most important.
 And why are you concerned about this apocalyptic stuff? This is unhealthy, this is some temptation.
 But no, this is not a temptation unless we make it so. There is a wrong way of understanding and approaching this book.
 Okay, so why, first of all, why is this important? This is important because Christ himself
 also prophesied about what will happen in the end. We remember every gospel has the prophecy
 of Christ himself. Before the end of his life, he told his disciples about those things,
 about wars and all tribulations that will happen, and the coming of many false prophets,
 and that he will come again. Okay, we later remember that when he rose there were two angels
 who came from heavens to testify about his second coming. They said, "Why are you looking in the sky?
 He will come again in the same way as he left." Okay, so after his rising, after resurrection
 and rising, the times are end times. We are living now in eschatological, eschaton means the last.
 So we are living in the last times. And why do we live in the last times?
 We live because somebody will say, "We maybe will not live enough to witness this during our
 lifetime." Because many Christians lived for 2,000 years and they did not see yet this second coming.
 So maybe it will be later, much later. And how is it related to us? The thing is that it's directly
 related to us, to every one of us, and to the church as a whole. Because this end of times,
 the world of this end of times is directly related to the world now. What is happening now
 is in this path towards what will happen very soon. Maybe not in our lifetime, but this will
 be soon. And it's related to us right now. In the Old Testament times, the main expectation was
 the coming of Messiah that will come and rescue people from sin, from ignorance, from suffering.
 But once he came, he gave people the truth and the choice. And now it's a matter of people receiving
 this and following what he said or choosing not to and getting this punishment in the last judgment.
 So now there is nothing else. There is nothing else that's coming. This is what it is. We need
 to be either with Christ, following him, putting all our effort, all our expectations into him,
 or we leave as though he will never come. And it doesn't matter. And this is normal way of life.
 Most people are like this. They leave as people leave. They work, they raise children,
 but they don't expect that everything will end. They're not thinking about it. They're trying to
 change this thought away. And this makes people live in illusory, in a fake world. It's like
 you know that the road is here, but you don't walk this road. You jump into a ditch and you die
 there. In the same way, it's closing our eyes and ears and not trying to understand what it's
 all about makes us not blessed by God. It makes us really miserable and wastes our whole life.
 So this is why we will be blessed if we read and listen and understand and keep those words
 which are written in this book of Revelation. Having said this, another mistake that
 is very often is that people are afraid of these things. They think that Revelation is about
 all those punishments. We saw the movies Apocalypse. There are a few movies with that name
 or End of Times, End of Days and those movies. It's always about this evil and the devil is
 controlling the world and Antichrist is coming and it's so terrible and there's catastrophes happening.
 People are afraid of that and here actually in the book of Revelation we read
 that in the end of times, in the last times, people will even die because of fear for
 what will happen next, what is coming. People will be really uncertain about the future and they will be
 dying from that uncertainty and we see now because of these pandemics, some people they do drugs and
 they don't know what will happen and many people are in depression and they sit at home and they
 have all kinds of bad thoughts about the future, about the world, about everything, even suicides.
 Okay, so we need not to fear these things. As Christians we should be
 joyful and happy. About what? About the coming of the eternal world that this book is about.
 This book is all about this eternal world with God that is coming. This is the main topic of this
 book and it's just to get us there we need to see what will be in front before that.
 So we know that many sufferings and disasters will come but all of that has to come for the
 final relief to arrive, for the Lord to come again, for us to have the full and absolute joy
 in our union with God. So we should not be afraid and there should be no phobia about this.
 And of course we need to know that our own personal judgment will happen when we die
 and we need to be ready for that. We should not be too much obsessed about apocalyptic things
 if we don't care about our own following of Christ. And now we're coming to a very important
 aspect is the levels of understanding of Revelation of the book of Revelation. And Saint Andrew of
 Caesarea he explains what levels that there are three levels of understanding and every level
 corresponds to the spiritual state of the person. So the higher spiritual level of people, of the
 reader or listener, the higher level of meaning he can get from this book. So the first level
 is literal meaning. So literal what was seen by John, the understanding of these words, okay,
 that there are visions and there are symbols and there are words being spoken and these
 writers that come and every rider horseman brings some kind of disaster. People can read about these
 disasters and this is the only level that most people can get. And this is why people get afraid
 because well these disasters are coming and they're getting afraid they're getting afraid
 of that. So this level is the first basic level. The second level is called tropological level.
 Tropological meaning from the word tropos in Greek means way or path. And this means that
 this is the meaning that we need to direct our life according to the way we should live,
 the way we should communicate with God, our spiritual life. This is the second level.
 So it is only the Christians who go through spiritual life that can gain something from
 the second level of meaning. Otherwise it will be closed. We cannot understand it if we don't know
 what the spiritual realities are. So this is the second level that we need to approach. It's not
 just, okay I read it, I read some commentaries, okay now I got it, okay finished. No, we can read
 as many commentaries as we want. But if we don't follow Christ, if we don't have spiritual life,
 we will not be able to understand this. This is absolutely sure. Okay so this is the second level.
 And the third level that there is is called anagogical level. And anagogical means anagogy,
 comes from Greek word anagogy, going above. And this means that it's bringing us to above higher
 meaning. And this above higher meaning is the meaning of the eternal kingdom of God
 that will be realized upon completion of times and destruction of this world after the second
 great judgment. Okay so we need to be ready for that. We need to think about this especially now
 during the week of the last judgment. Okay this week, the week before the great land,
 we prepare, we go through repentance to prepare for the last judgment and for what is coming after.
 Okay so this meaning is possible only if we are driven by the Spirit of God. If this third level
 of spiritual growth is when we are fooled with grace and we can live alone all earthly
 concepts, all concerns, all passions, and our spirit can go above and brought by the grace of
 God enter into those mysteries. But this is very seldom. We have people who reach that level.
 So for us sinful men, if we get the second level this will be already great success. And this
 will make us live in a very Christian way. Because if we know that everything is about to end,
 every day that we go it's okay minus one, minus one, minus one, subtracting, subtracting. I'm
 getting closer to that. The whole humanity is getting closer to that. We will be much more
 serious about faith and about religious life. For example, if we have a relative whom we love
 and we know that he or she will die soon after one year because of cancer, she's got only one
 year left. This year we will be certainly really caring about him, about her, talking a lot and
 expressing our love as much as we can. We will be really eager to live for this person during this
 last year of his or her life. And in the same way we need to be that much eager and fervent
 in our ministry to Christ. This is what means be spiritually vigilant, don't sleep.
 Is to be caring about spiritual life and serving Christ, following him, penetrating into
 his wisdom, learning how to love him. So this is what the Revelation, the book of Revelation can
 give us. It's the right attitude towards this book and this is the beginning for us. Hopefully
 we have more opportunities to talk about this book, but this is to begin with. And of course
 it's not popular now to talk about end of the world. Because people want to forget about that
 and just live, enjoy their life. But this brings us to suffering, this brings us to losing our time,
 losing our life. May the Lord give us his wisdom, give us the right heart to treat this book and
 this will give us great understanding, insight into what's happening in our world today and in
 our own lives and souls. May God bless you and give you his wisdom. Amen.
