 Dear brothers and sisters, today we live in this era of internet and when we are interested
 about spirituality and we are trying to find a path to Jesus Christ, to union with God,
 we often see that there are so many different sources and speakers and everybody is talking
 about Christ and faith and God but they very often contradict each other and have very
 very different approaches and the message is quite different. And we know that these
 days there are many denominations, congregations and within those congregations there are people
 with different ideas, opinions. Today we will not talk about the dogmat of faith, doctrines,
 doctrinal differences. We will talk about the spirit that we can see when we listen
 to some speakers. And we will see that sometimes this spirit is contrary to the basic message
 of Jesus Christ. So we should be aware of this and not be relying too much on any speaker.
 And having this as a vaccine against spiritual harm that can come, especially if we consider
 ourselves to do testimony about Christ on the internet, we also need to be aware about
 these things and avoid them. Otherwise it will be very immature and we will spoil things
 instead of helping people find God, we will make them go away from God. And also in this
 era of YouTube era of internet we should not be too relying on these things. For us the
 most important is the gospel and the holy communion, repentance, prayer and we should
 not get too much relying on these sources, on this media because it can lead us astray.
 We can become living in the virtual world and having all kinds of addictions to those
 things. So we are here, we do testimony in the internet only because people are here
 and we need to do testimony wherever people are, not because we want them to get relying
 and dependent on these things. So today we will talk about these different spirits and
 not to criticize people, not to say that people are all away from God and things like this,
 but for us to be more knowledgeable and more wise in listening things about God and finding
 out what is true and what is false. The apostle Paul himself said, "Know how to distinguish
 between different spirits. Not all spirits come from God." So today we will talk about
 the spirits. The first spirit that is very common is the spirit of self-love. The speaker
 talks a lot about himself, introducing his story, introducing his life, introducing himself
 from different angles. This is me. And this is common today because of this spirit of
 narcissism that we have. People put a lot of photos of themselves on Facebook, everywhere,
 and they enjoy looking at themselves and others looking at them and putting likes to them.
 And this is a very sick, unhealthy phenomenon because for a Christian the most important
 is Christ and God, not he himself. What people put on Facebook is what is most interesting
 to them. This is very often happening with people talking about God, talking about Christ,
 and we forget about the commandment of Christ that, "Whoever wants to follow me, let him
 abandon himself and take up his cross and follow me. And whoever wants to be my disciple,
 he will have his soul perish in order to find it. And whoever finds gains his soul, saves
 his soul, he will lose it." So we need to forget about ourselves and think only about
 ministry to God and to his church, to people. The second, another spirit, is a spirit of
 a corporation or political, I call it. When people talk about, "Oh, this is our organization.
 This is our church. This is our mission. This is our activities, accomplishments. We hear
 this, come here." And this is also very often. Everything that's related to us is super good.
 So that kind of message. And trying to solidify positions. Okay, we are this, we are that.
 And for Christ, all of that is meaningless. Because for him, it's important that he lives
 in hearts of men. Whoever with him is the church, and it is important that he is united
 with us and not that we drag people to some organization. So this is also a spirit that's
 quite far from Christ. Another spirit is a spirit of opinion. People say, "This is my
 opinion. You want to hear my opinion. This is my opinion. My opinion on that is this.
 My opinion on this is that." Well, the Holy Father has told us that we cannot trust our
 own opinion. We need to see what gospel says. And if we don't find the answer there, we
 need to pray a lot and have some signs that some kind of judgment is according to gospel
 or not. If we don't have this proof from God that something is true, not because it's my
 opinion, because it's true by itself. But in that case, we need to say, "Well, I don't
 really know what's the truth. But as far as I can judge or as far as I understand up to
 now, I think it's like that. But maybe I'm wrong." People need to be humble to say things
 like that. And another spirit is a Pharisee spirit. The Lord himself said, "Beware of
 this Pharisee spirit." And this spirit is like that. People, they think that they are
 holy themselves and everyone is evil. So this is heretic, this is wrong. So these people,
 they don't have love to others. The sign of this Pharisee spirit is that there is no love.
 People just try to accuse, this is that, this is wrong, this is not good. And this is far
 away from Christ also. Another spirit, number five is the spirit of fear. Now, when people
 talk about all the time Antichrist, everywhere is evil stuff. And we need to be so much aware
 and there is some kind of conspiracy everywhere and massons and everything is out there. And
 this is fear. And in Christian, there is no fear. We have only fear of God, to sin and
 to fall away from his grace. Everything else we are not afraid of. We cannot know that
 it exists. We don't try to be blind and say, "No, no, no." Yeah, we can know things exist
 and there will be Antichrist, but we are not afraid of anything of that. Another spirit,
 which is also common, number six is a spirit of, well, it's a little bit opposite from
 this one. It's a spirit that hallelujah, everything is fine. Everything is great. We are with
 God. God loves you. And just everything is great. And this spirit has no fear of God.
 This spirit has no reverence to God's punishment. And this is over self-confidence. People are
 confident. This is delusion. This is delusion. This is like in the movie, when we see it's
 some superhero and everybody's shooting at him and he doesn't die. And people think that
 they are superheroes like that. But in real life it's different. So this is why this kind
 of spirit is also a mistake, is a deceitful one. Another spirit that we see is a military
 spirit. This is when people have aggressive attitude. They say we can use violence and
 strength to push something, to prove that we are true. If it's church, we have government,
 we have bombs that will prove that we are true. Or people say, okay, this is fine for
 a Christian if you see somebody doing something wrong, just go punish him. And these people
 who talk about things like that, they have that aggression in them. And this spirit we
 need to be aware of. Another, the last spirit for today is the spirit of enjoying your own
 erudition, your own intelligence, education that you have, knowledge that you have, you
 sort of show off. And this is common for people who have high education. Apostle Paul is saying
 that knowledge makes you arrogant, makes you proud. And there is no Christ in someone who
 is proud. So there is nothing wrong with knowledge and learning and education by itself. It's
 very good, but we need to know this risk that is inherent in that. And we need to be
 aware of that. And by listing all those different spirits, maybe you've noticed some of these
 things already in things that you listen on the internet or watch. But it doesn't mean
 that now we need to just not watch anything. It's all harmful, it's all bad, it's all antichrist.
 Not at all. When we have this vaccine, we have the ability to distinguish what is what.
 And then we know, this is harmful. Maybe I don't need to watch that. This is not so bad.
 It has some of those spirits in it, but this is not that bad. I can still draw some important
 knowledge from these guys. So let us be very mindful. In order to avoid this, we will not
 be able to avoid it unless we have humbleness in our heart, we have prayer, repentance.
 We are united with Christ. We need to receive the Holy Communion. This is very important.
 And we need to always read the gospel and the Holy Father's lives of saints to be able
 to have this anchor that's grounding us to truth and not to be misled by some things
 and get in love with some people who maybe priests or missionaries get too much relying
 on someone. So this will keep us away from harm. This will give us union with God. And
 we will be able to do effective ministry and testimony for our Lord Jesus Christ. May Lord
 help you, protect you and give you wisdom. Amen.
