 Dear friends, the holy church has entered into the time of great land. This week is the first
 week of the land and we need to think deeply about the meaning of the land and our task,
 our goal that we have. And many people say "Well, God is spirit and we are spiritual,
 we need spiritual life, we need to pray more, we need to repent, we need to have a stronger will
 to know more the gospel". Why do we need to fast? This is food, this is some external things. And
 does the God, the Creator of universe, care about "Do I eat sandwich or I eat carrot or what I eat
 and how much I eat"? He doesn't care about this. So there is this temptation to say "Well,
 okay, this is all tradition coming from people and this is some nonsense". And even if we don't
 say this, some people say "Okay, yes, we are traditionalists, we keep fasting, but it's much
 more important not to get angry, not to accuse others and other things, then how much you eat,
 what you eat, all of that is secondary". So even we have that within the church, some people
 think that way. And there is a big mistake in this. The main reason and the main task of Christ
 that he came to this earth is to resurrect faith in people. And this meant conquering the matter
 by spirit. For example, all miracles that he's done. Say he was walking on the waters.
 This is matter, water, and he is walking on top of the waters. He is conquering the laws of this
 nature, physical world. And then he said to Peter, when Peter asked "I want to come, tell me to come
 to you", he said "Come". And he was walking on the waters. And this is what a person who has faith
 has to be able to learn to do, to walk upon the waters. This is our task as Christians.
 This is faith, what it is. The faith is not to believe that God exists. It's not to believe
 that Jesus is savior. This is just concepts. And we can accept these concepts. But this doesn't
 change our life unless we have faith as this power coming from God of conquering this material world.
 Other miracles like resurrecting people who died, death, it's all gone. This is
 law of this world, of matter in this world, of mortal body, it dies. But God is resurrecting him.
 He is calling him back to life, conquering this matter. He breaks the bread. He only
 five loaves of bread and two fishes, two fish for 5,000 men, maybe 20,000 people. And they were fed
 because they came to listen to the Lord and they had faith in him. And he acted upon their faith.
 And gave them what they needed. So he was winning over these laws of nature. And even this symbolism
 that he enters in Jerusalem on a donkey also means that he is conquering matter.
 Donkey represent matter. And he is sitting upon it. And so he is bringing the full victory
 of spirit over matter. And this is what we learn during the fast to win the matter by spirit with
 the help of God. And you may ask, well, why he created us material? Why do I have this mortal body?
 Why not just make me an angel? And we angels, we would be above matter. If the matter is
 evil and like the Gnostics, they said matter is evil. We need to go away from this prison.
 This body, material body is a prison of my soul. All of that is harmful heresy.
 Because the task that he gives to us is to be material but conquer this matter by spirit.
 It will be too easy. You're just an angel. You don't need to conquer anything. You're already
 flying on the heavens. But he wants us to be here on this material fallen earth and to be victors.
 To be conquerors of this matter. Spiritually conquering. Not by technology.
 Technology also. But first and foremost spiritually. So what he tells Jews, you are from
 the below and I'm from above. What I tell you are words of God. And what means below? Below means
 that people live according to the laws of this world. The common wisdom of this world
 saying that others will not care about you. So you need to care about yourself all the time.
 And you need to accumulate a lot of money so that you have enough for retirement. And other things,
 other people, they are your rivals, competitors. So you need to be like a wolf. You need to be
 by your own, on your own. And all of those things which... Well, they say it works. This is how the
 world works. Why? Because it's a fallen world. And we need to go against all of that logic.
 That logic comes from the material fallen world. So for us, another logic works. The logic of
 the Gospel of Christ. And he said that you will by faith conquer all those things. So this is
 what we learned during the Great Land. And the task of Christ was to resurrect faith in people,
 to bring them back to life, not to live in those. So the Jewish people were all living by those
 rules, coming from below. They cared about that. And the pagans, even worse, because the pagans,
 they worshipped the material elements. They saw that power comes from the sun. They worship the
 sun. They see that the sea is a source of danger. They worship the sea. They became worshippers.
 And then this astrology stuff. The stars determined things. And all of that nonsense.
 All of that God was not pleased. And even worshipping animals. And many other things.
 So the Lord, for him, is a domination. When the people, instead of worshipping the creator,
 they worship the created things and world and elements. So this is what God hates. And this
 brings us to worshipping demons that are behind these passions and desires. And this is also why
 he said that only through prayer and fasting you can conquer demons. Some people say, "Does the
 demon care what I eat?" Yes he does. He cares not what you eat. He cares if you are determined by
 your passions and desires. Or you are free and you are driven by spirit. If you are driven by spirit,
 then he will be flying away. He will be running away from you. And so this is why the fasting
 and great land is called land. It's called fasting. It's not called something else.
 Read more Bible. Time of more intensive prayer. No, it's called fasting. Because the most
 fundamental thing is, can you conquer your belly, your flesh? Or, okay, some people say
 it's not important what you eat. Well, it would not be important if you can eat
 few things to be always a little bit hungry. When you eat you still remain hungry.
 And also eat stuff that is not tasty. If for you this is fine, eat stuff that's not tasty. It's
 not good food. Something that you don't like at all. And just a little bit so you're still hungry.
 If you can live like that, yes, you're already fine. The food part of the land is not so
 important for you. But who is like that? Okay, I never met people like that. So
 we are determined by this pharaoh that's inside us, this flesh. And this is our old self. We are
 determined by our fallen flesh and desires. So this is why we want to eat tasty food. We want
 to eat on time. Breakfast, lunch, dinner. We want to eat enough that we are not hungry,
 that we're full. We always want to be like that. So the church tells us, okay, now begin from this.
 If you really want to have strong faith that can determine things, that can help you change
 your whole life, okay, then begin from this little thing. Try to tell your belly, "No,
 you want breakfast today? No breakfast. You want tasty food today? No tasty food." Okay, so this
 is how spirit conquers matter. This is the meaning of the land and of fasting. And when we can win
 these flesh and these desires, carnal things, then God can lead us and we can have a spiritual life.
 So this is how it's created. There is some kind of antagonism between matter and spirit. We are
 material but we have spirit and it has to conquer this matter. And then we can become the salt of
 this earth, of this world. The salt is what changes all this world. If we ourselves can
 first change ourselves with God's grace, of course, we cannot do it ourselves. So if people
 say that, "Well, of course, I can decide what to eat. Some people, they're vegans, they can not eat
 any meat at all." So it's up to people. If you really try to fast and you ask advice on how
 fast in your case, you will discover that you cannot do it by yourself. You will understand,
 you will see. And this brings humbleness and repentance, that I myself am fallen. Without God,
 I'm a slave of my desires and I'm perishing, I'm going down, I'm going to hell.
 This is why I need the Savior and I need to repent and I need His grace in order for me to become
 with Him. So we will gain this purity, becoming poor in spirit. Blessed are those poor in spirit.
 We understand that ourselves, we cannot do it. And we cannot really fast without God's help and
 grace. But if we forget about ourselves, we just abandon ourselves, we don't count on it, then the
 Lord will give us His help and grace in fasting and in approaching Him and He will give us wisdom
 and we will conquer this matter and become true soldiers of Christ. So let us remember about this,
 let us not think, "Oh, it is just some rule. It's not important. It's just an external rule."
 It can be very important if we can understand what it is. It is not just external rule like diet,
 but it is me conquering this spiritual, this carnal flesh and thereby I can conquer even
 evil and even evil spirits. Fasting can help us conquer evil spirits. May the Lord give us
 this joy and this eagerness to put effort into this year's land. It began yesterday,
 March 15, and it will end on May the 1st, the last day of the land. And we don't eat meat, dairy,
 eggs, and some people don't eat fish and eat less. This is the food thing.
 But also, of course, we add a lot of prayer, much more prayer, much more spiritual reading,
 doing some deeds of mercy, avoiding any conflicts, talking less, not participating in some
 unnecessary discussions, events. And we focus on repentance, prayer, go more often to church,
 and we come to another spiritual level. For us, we focus all our time, all our effort on spiritual.
 This is the time of our spiritual growth, revival, and strengthening our faith. May the Lord give you
 this joy of this time and His blessing, Amy. God bless.
