 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say a few words about messianism and our mission
 as Christians. Very often we perceive our faith as just we belong to some religion,
 we follow some traditions, yes, we pray, we read the Bible, but our faith is more than
 this. And the most important is not this, actually. The most important is that Christ
 gave its church his own mission. He came himself, Messiah. He came and he brought the salvation
 and liberation of the whole humanity. And he entrusts this mission to his church and
 to his disciples and makes them his messengers and his apostles, his representatives to the
 whole world. And they go to the whole world. Right now, we ourselves, not because of this
 mission has a problem, but because we have a problem. We are weak, we are selfish, we
 are relaxed, and we don't perceive our faith like this. And the church becomes more and
 more passive and more individualistic. Everybody just cares about his own stuff. And people
 think, well, for me, it's enough just to get into heaven and this will be enough. I just
 focus on this. Anything else, it's not my problem. This is wrong spirituality, wrong
 perception of our faith, because our faith is to be witnesses of Christ and to feel this
 common mission that is more important than anything else in this world. And it is more
 important than our daily responsibilities. We are completely immersed in this life, just
 do what I am supposed to do. And every day, this paradigm, we live in a box. But the Lord
 wants us to go outside this box. It doesn't mean that we drop all our responsibilities,
 that we make this message that he gave to us, the first responsibility. The early Christians,
 they said, now it's the era of Messiah. And now we are his messengers. And the task, the
 goal is to bring this message and this testimony, this truth to the ends of the world. And this
 is not for some special people, some saints. No, this is for everyone. Every Christian
 has this responsibility on the place where he is at right now. We see that our days,
 some political ideas unite people much stronger than this mission. Because people, Christians,
 we don't feel this mission. The soul becomes not salty. This is the problem. If you have
 a mission, you have a very firm root and base for your actions, for your thoughts, for your
 goals. But we don't have it. We lost it. We've lost it. We need to understand and recover
 this. And we see that many political parties, they can rally, they can do protests and go
 out on the street, risk their future, their jobs for some idea. We see even religions,
 Muslims, and other religions, they are ready to go out and to risk their lives, to lose
 everything for idea, for something. I'm not saying that these ideas are true and good,
 but they are ready to do this. We see some nationalists or some liberalists in different
 countries, they are willing to do things for the idea they believe. But we are not doing
 anything. Almost nothing. And of course, I'm not calling people to come out on the streets.
 Right now, it's not necessary. But we need to understand that our meeting in the Church
 is of great importance. We come to the Church not just for myself to pray, but we come as
 this community of people, messengers of Christ, to receive the true message, to be together,
 to support each other, to have some discussion about how we face things, what's happening,
 what we should do, and to share our experience and faith. This is super important for us.
 It has to be. We see during this globalization era that even nations, they lose cultural
 codes. Some strong nations that at some point, the German nation, the French nation, many
 nations had the mission and they had the message to the whole world to bring. But with this
 globalization it becomes, people don't feel they can contribute something unique and special
 to this world. And this makes these cultural codes dissolve, disappear. For us Christians,
 no matter what nationality we are, the main cultural code for us is Christianity, our
 faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. And this has to be super strong and bringing fruit
 and testimony. We have to feel that we are messengers, every one of us. If somebody is
 a messenger saying, well, somebody is commissioned to somewhere, other countries say, he has
 a special task, a special mission to carry out. He will think about it all the time,
 every day. And this will determine who he is. And this will determine our spirituality
 if we perceive ourselves having mission like this. And he's interesting to others. Other
 people see there is some kind of mystery about him. And we are supposed to have even bigger
 mystery in us with this commission, with this mission that we received from our Lord Jesus
 Christ. So let us feel his responsibility because Christ, he will ask us, when he will
 meet us, he will ask, what did you do? How did you do testimony about me? Are you willing,
 were you Christian? Yes, I have Christian, I have cross, I have Bible. No, he will ask,
 did you do this testimony about myself? So let us feel this responsibility. Let us be
 strong, be ready to sacrifice everything to accept the risks for our faith in Christ.
 Otherwise we'll be dissolved like that. And there will be no purpose for this world to
 exist anymore. If we will just be dissolved like different nations in the globalization
 paradigm. So may the Lord give us the strength. May he give us this mission, this eagerness,
 this self-awareness. Who are we? What is our task? What is our goal? What is our motivation?
 And we will have this strong code. If necessary, we can go out on the streets. We can pray
 all night because we are with Christ. This is everything for us. It's not just that the
 club people have some interests sometimes time to time. Or some rituals. We just perform
 some rituals, just the office of rituals or spiritual needs, satisfying people or a psychiatrist.
 We are not a clinic, not a clinic of psychiatrist or some relaxation, spiritual opium for the
 masses. No, we are army of Christ and we're his messengers. And we are doing this mission
 on behalf of Christ for the salvation of the whole world. May the Lord help you and give
 you his blessing and strength, power, I mean.
