 Dear brothers and sisters, today we become similar to the whole society. We become
 very materialistic and we think that material things, our income, our education, our
 country, government, those things they decide what will happen, what our life is going to be like,
 will we have a good strong country, strong economy or a weak one. It will decide everything. If we
 have financing then we can invest and then we can do something else. This logic comes from below.
 We remember Christ said to the people that you are talking about things from below
 and I am talking about things from above. So Christians are basically called to be idealists
 and what means to be idealist in this context is to believe that spiritual decides everything.
 Spiritual reality decides material outcome. Spirit is seeking forms for itself.
 So when we have crisis, for example, like now the whole world is in this midst of the crisis,
 we first of all we need to know that the reason for this crisis is spiritual
 and the cure for this crisis is also has to be spiritual. It's not just wearing mask and
 doing all the other things. All of that can be done and should be done but it's secondary.
 We as Christians know that all the problems and everything, all the tribulations that happen to
 this world and to the church, they have spiritual roots and reasons. So we can see this. We need to
 change our mind completely. We can see that this is true. This is iron rule. It's firm,
 it's absolute this rule that spiritual brings about the material results and outcomes. We can
 see this from the Bible, from beginning from Old Testament. We see that it was the promise of God
 and that people trust this promise that gave them the promised land. We see even with Abraham,
 when he trusts God then he got what was promised. We see that in all the wars when the Israel were
 faithful to the Lord. They were loyal, they were winning and as soon as they were worshiping false
 gods or they don't care about their faith, they were conquered, they were put to slavery and
 this was coming inevitably unless they repent. We see the similar thing in the history of the
 church. In the history of the church we see that great spiritual efforts and testimony of the
 early martyrs resulted in conquering the whole universe at the time of Saint Constantine whose
 icon we see behind me. This brought the victory of Christianity over the whole world but this
 lasted not that long about two centuries because very soon people got relaxed and the
 Christians of that time became immersed in this daily business and caring only about their own
 well-being. And we have a lot of problems. We have the Justinian and Black and we have a lot of
 disasters, big earthquakes destroying whole cities and we very soon will have the Persian invasion,
 then we'll have the Arab invasion and we also have this focus who is killing the emperor and
 all his family and bringing a lot of sorrow, a lot of trouble to the Byzantine of that time,
 the Roman Empire, the Christian Roman Empire of that time. And we see that this is coming. The
 saints tell us that this was coming because the Lord allowed this to happen because people were
 far away from God. And similar things happen later. We see with the Mongols invading Russia
 and because of spiritual problems again people were declaring that they're Christians but
 they were not living as Christians. And we see then the saints of the Kyiv caves and
 Saint Sergius Radenesh because of their spiritual efforts. There is revival of faith and also
 chasing out these Mongols and Russia became strong and powerful. But later in the 19th century we have
 in the 18th century we have spiritual problems very big problems and this leads to destruction
 of the whole Russian empire and persecution of the church killing many Christians
 and almost destroying the church at that time. So we see that the Lord is working in this way that
 He is blessing Christians when they are faithful to their faith, when they are loyal to God. And
 this is spiritual our relationship with God. Is it healthy? Is it strong? Is it firm? If it's not,
 if we abandon our Lord then all kinds of troubles will come. Of course this is not one-to-one
 relationship and okay what we're talking also implies on individual level not only on the
 country level church level on individual level same thing. So it's not one-to-one relationship
 because if someone is loyal to God and strong in his faith it doesn't mean that he will be
 wealthy and prosperous and everything will be just super nice. He might still have challenges
 and sorrows in his life so that he can get even stronger in his faith and his soul can be purified
 through these sufferings and hardships. But it will be for the good. So we need to be wise
 about these things and the main thing that we need to know is that troubles that we have
 are coming from spiritual reasons. So the cure, the solution also has to come always from
 spirituality and not just okay I need some more financing, I need something else. No we need more
 prayer, we need more repentance. Especially now during Lent time we need to put much more effort
 into our spiritual life. And we need to see the evil because now the big temptation
 that the Christians are told everything is fine, nobody is evil, there is nothing bad happening.
 We just basically everything is fine, don't worry, there is no need to panic about anything.
 And this is basically putting people in a hypnosis, in sleep, spiritual sleep. And people
 think oh yes everything is fine, we go to church, we pray. No we need to be soldiers and the soldiers
 are they need to feel the war is going on. Because the war is always going on and if we don't feel it
 we don't see what what is all about that means that we are not on the front line, we are somewhere
 else, we're having rest. And that means that fewer people are on the front line and we're losing.
 This is one thing. Another thing is that we need to know that
 everyone can make a change. Because another big mistake is that we feel that what can I do
 myself? I'm just one person, I cannot influence anything. So I just care about my own
 life and my own well-being, including spiritual well-being. And that's fine, I don't
 I cannot influence anything. It's a big government, they have resources, they have media, they have
 economy, they have everything. I don't have all of those things, so nothing depends on me.
 So this is a big mistake that makes us incapable of fighting the evil, both inside us and
 outside in this world. And we need to be soldiers and we need to know that every one of us, even
 separated, even somewhere far away, we can contribute to the victory that we have to
 attain in this fight with the evil. So may the Lord help us, give us this understanding, give
 us the strength during this time of the land to be strong, to be united, and to conquer
 the evil. And this will solve many many other problems that are physical, that are more evident
 starting from the Spirit. May the Lord help us and give us His blessing. Amen.
