 Dear brothers and sisters, we are facing dark ages.
 We see that the whole humanity is departing from Christian faith.
 In the 19th century, people were losing faith.
 In the 20th century, governments, they declared that they have no relationship with faith,
 with Christianity in many countries.
 Some countries became atheist, materialistic, fighting with the church, with God.
 Now we are in this post-modernism age and Islam is rising and Christianity is becoming
 weaker overall on the society level.
 Both governments and societies are getting more and more pagan, post-Christian and embrace
 all kinds of Asian practices and all kinds of crazy things which are far away from Christ.
 In this situation, we most likely will get worse. From what we see, we might get more
 totalitarian, more pagan regimes in the future that's coming.
 We need to be ready to do our Christian ministry and testimony in those dark times which we
 are going into.
 And we are not in good shape, being honest.
 We can compare ourselves with the early church that we need to learn from because they were
 able to overcome all those challenges. Their faith was much stronger and their self-understanding
 of Christians was quite different from ours today.
 Okay, so today I want to talk about four different problems that we have and they relate both
 to non-orthodox people who believe in Christ, okay, heterodox, Protestants and Catholics
 and other groups, while we also have similar problems within the Orthodox Church which
 is also quite troubling.
 The first problem that we have is the break apart of Christians, okay. We see that everybody
 who is calling himself Christian these days belongs to a different group, okay, belongs
 to some denomination, congregation which has its own conscience, self-conscious. Now I'm
 talking about Protestant groups.
 In the Catholic Church there is also many different factions and in the Orthodox Church
 we also have this problem with this division into local churches, okay. And indeed from
 ancient times we have local churches but this was just a matter of location, okay. It didn't
 have any political implications. But now we have a problem that some people say, well,
 some nation is connected to some church. There is a Bulgarian Orthodox Church and it belongs
 to Bulgarian nations and Bulgarians are supposed to be all Christians Orthodox. Russian Church,
 Georgian, Greek, any nation, okay. This connection to different nations is quite contrary to
 the spirit of the church, okay. So this is left over from times when governments cooperated
 with the church very closely. The government itself was Christian, all the people in the
 government were Christians and honest Christians and they helped the church, the church cooperated
 with the government and we had almost all the country, all society being part of the
 church living like Christians, most of them, okay. Even this is questionable but not like
 now. Right now we have a very tiny minority in every nation in this world that are really
 Christians for whom following Christ is not just empty words. And governments they are
 also all secular and anytime they can declare something else, okay, that they are against
 the church or whatever, okay. Now most of them are tolerant but this can change anytime.
 So we can see that right now all of this is vanishing and we need to go back to where?
 We need not to hold on to this model, okay, that everybody in some Orthodox countries
 or no, we need to go back to the model of the early church and the model of the early
 church, okay, and this is the main thing, is that we as Christians are a new nation,
 we are one nation and this nation is the successor of the old Israel and the nation of God chosen
 by him was the chosen people in the Old Testament times that have all the promises and all the
 blessings of God. And now all of this is taken from the Jewish nation and is given to this
 new nation which is new Israel and we as Christians have this great mission and this great blessing
 to be this new nation and everything else vanishes. Our distinction, who, what country
 we're from, what nation we're from, all of that in Christ there is no Jew and no alien,
 no Greek, no pagan, no Greek and Greek meant, okay, another nation, not a Jew. But in Christ
 the main thing is it's in Christ, it's not just now there is no distinction in the world,
 okay, all people in the world it's all the same, Christians, non-Christians, it's all
 the same. No, no distinction in Christ, it's when we become part of this body of Christ
 then all these distinctions become irrelevant, become meaningless, but we need to become
 parts of this new nation and the Christians when the martyrs when they were asked what
 nation are you from, are you off, do you belong, they said we are Christians and what country
 you're from, we are Christians. The only answer they had is that they are Christians and this
 is what we are lacking now, that as long as we are part of the church, we are united with
 Christ, we are one and we are one nation chosen by God having special mission, this is what
 we are lacking, okay, so this is the first thing that we need to be aware of and we need
 to be strong about. The second problem is the boundaries of the church become very blurred
 these days because we have this anthropological understanding that, not anthropological, anthropocentristic
 vision of the world coming from the time of renaissance when the human is placed in the
 center of everything, the main value and now for us it's more important that personality,
 that you are a citizen, you are a human being and okay this becomes more important for us
 in our mind. Then faith, so faith becomes like only like a property, okay, there are
 people they're all have same rights, same importance, same meaning, but they just have
 different ideas, okay, and they are changing their ideas and it's secondary. So this is
 the problem and that's why for us we don't really see these boundaries, whether it's
 someone is a part of the church or is not, well it's all relative, okay, for us. So this
 is another big problem that we have because for us we need to understand that we are chosen
 by God and this is very important and special and another reason for this lack of this self-conscience
 is because we Christians become very proud and full of vainglory and if we are told that
 we are special and chosen we think that we are better than others, okay, and we become
 arrogant and proud and we go back to very narrow mindset and because of this proudness
 and this arrogance that we have the Lord doesn't give us this understanding, okay, the church
 becomes weaker and we are losing this saltiness, we become not salty. So this is another problem.
 First of all of course we need to be humble and repent our sins and love other people
 from the bottom of our heart more than ourselves, sacrifice ourselves and only then we will
 see that there is this mission and that we are chosen by God for some special goal. So
 this is the second problem that we need to face and overcome. The third problem is our
 statical understanding of the church. Statical understanding that, okay, now I'm talking
 about the Orthodox Church. The Orthodox Church remembers very well that church is a body
 of Christ and there is the mystical body and we are all connected to this mystical
 body and this is important, these are the boundaries of the church even though we don't
 see it. This ecclesiastic understanding is very clear. However, very often this becomes
 static and limited and we think that this is like real physical body, okay, and we need
 to be either connected and receive some juices from it or we are separated, okay, and if
 we are connected fine, okay, now we can now relax, we are fine, we are on this tree, okay,
 we need to remember that all of these different parables are talking about church as a mystery
 and none of them can fully explain what the church is really like. We see also other ways
 of describing the church as a building that is built, okay, a big castle, okay, fortress.
 We see and the Christians like stones and there are different types of stones and also
 we see the church is like a young girl, okay, a virgin. We also see the church as a woman
 clothed in sun, okay, in the Revelation. We see the church as an old lady, okay, with
 all the experience and all the wisdom. We see the church is portrayed like a ship, okay,
 going through turmoil, tempest, okay, waters. We see many different visions and so the church
 is a mystery. We cannot just use one thing. So, we need to understand our belongingness
 to the church dynamically. The more we are humble, the more we sacrifice ourselves, the
 more we try to follow Christ, keep his commandments, the more we love him, the more we gain the
 grace and help from him. It's not just yes or no, okay, so we need to be really always
 exerting our efforts to be with Christ, to follow him and only that can keep us in this
 grace and being strong in Christ, okay. So, this is another thing that we need to remember.
 And the last thing that I want to say today is individualism. We are now super individualistic.
 We just care about me and God and that's it, okay. And as soon as I'm fine with God, okay,
 the end of the world, everybody dies. I don't care. It's just me and him, okay. And this
 is complete nonsense, okay, because we can be saved only as the church, okay. And the
 church, everybody has responsibility for each other and we carry burdens of each other and
 help each other, okay. And we pray each other only in our common prayer. We constitute the
 body of Christ. So, this is super important. Even if I'm alone praying somewhere, it's
 not just me praying, it's I'm praying together with the whole church. I need to have this
 understanding. That's why we say our father who art in heaven. We don't say my father
 who art in heaven. So, this is another thing that we need to overcome. And, okay, so please
 be ready to enter into these dark ages. And we are going into these dark ages because
 of also these weaknesses that I have listed, okay. So, we need to do everything not to
 make this happen, okay, these dark ages come. But the best thing we can do is to prepare
 well for these dark ages to come, okay. And we also remember that saint or holy in the
 Hebrew language is kadosh. And kadosh is separated, okay. We need to remember that we as a church
 is separate, taken into the bosom of the Lord. And as taken and chosen, we are carrying out
 very special functions and mission, okay. Let us remember about this always. Feel this
 as a reality, not just as some idea. And we will gain blessing and help from our Lord
 Jesus Christ every day of our life to do this testimony and to be strong and united and
 victorious in this war against evil and against devil. May Lord help every one of you. Amen.
