 Dear brothers and sisters, one philosopher in the 18th century he said that God has died.
 And we can only say how sorry we are about this person and about people that he was describing
 because he was talking about the society of that time.
 And for majority of people God indeed died.
 But this only tells us that the people and the whole society got very far from God.
 Because the Lord is as alive as he always is and always will be.
 And he is full of power and he is giving this power to us.
 And he is giving us the true life and grace.
 And every one of us who has experienced the power and enlightenment and motivation coming
 from our Lord cannot keep it in ourselves.
 And the idea that everything is so bad, people are materialistic, people are far away from
 God, so the whole society is so corrupt and there is no one going to churches.
 And in many countries churches become condominiums, become museums and nobody is going.
 So we live in the post-Christian world, it's all over, it's all finished.
 This is a temptation.
 We don't need to listen to all of that and feel like that.
 Everything is finished and nothing is decided.
 For the Lord everything is open.
 And for us a lot depends on us, every one of us.
 And we saw in the apocalypse, in the book of Revelation and in the pastor of St. Hermes
 that the construction is ongoing.
 The construction of the church and the laborers are doing their job.
 And until it's all over, until it's all finished, the world will exist and it will not end.
 So every one of us needs to contribute as much as we can to this construction and to
 building the church of God.
 And today I want to say about the mission work that can be done by any layperson, not
 a priest.
 Just a simple person, because this is another temptation that people think I cannot do much,
 I am just nobody, I work in somewhere and I have so many sins, I'm not worthy of talking
 about God, about faith.
 So it's just not my thing.
 And this is the biggest mistake because all of us are witnesses of Christ.
 If we are not, we are not Christians.
 So we need to do this testimony.
 And one of the subscribers asked me how can someone who is a layman, how he or she can
 do this ministry.
 So first of all, we need to know that it's not me who will do the ministry.
 It will be God Himself who will be with me and who will do the job.
 I just need to be there and just need to say things that I will be supposed to say at that
 moment.
 So basically, I am nothing, I am just a tool in God's hands.
 We just need to be there.
 Our task is just to take our bones and flesh and bring it to the right place.
 As simple as that.
 Everything else will be done by God Himself.
 This is one thing.
 Another thing is that before we do any public mission or any active outreach for the Lord,
 the first requirement is we need to prepare ourselves, our own life and soul.
 What do we need?
 We need first of all to be stable in terms of moral and spiritual and psychological life.
 We should not have any ups and downs.
 At least not to have people see it.
 Not to have big depressions.
 Not to get into anger.
 Not to get into some dislike, not like someone, some kind of negative feelings towards anyone.
 These things we should be able to get rid of because this will be a negative testimony.
 People who will see that we are Christians, they will say, "Well, I don't want to be a
 Christian because this guy is crazy."
 These things we need to fix first and foremost.
 If we don't have that stability, then we should not yet go out and do things or avoid too
 much outreach, work just with the most closest family, maybe.
 This is one thing.
 Also, we should not have any propaganda of our own ideas other than the gospel and salvation.
 We should get rid of any political views we have.
 We don't bring that out.
 We can talk about it with other people, not with those whom we bring the message of Christ.
 This is another thing.
 One more thing that we need to require from ourselves is a regular prayer and a regular
 visit to the church for liturgy, participation in divine service and in the holy sacraments
 of confession and Eucharist.
 If we don't have this, we will also not be a good example of a Christian to anyone.
 We won't have that power that we need in order to bring the right testimony, right message.
 This is our spiritual food that we need to get used to take on a regular basis, better
 at least once a month to have a holy confession and communion.
 Better more, more often.
 Another once a month means give or take.
 But if we don't receive communion for more than months, already we have this red light
 and I need to fix my relationship with God as soon as possible.
 Now what else we need?
 We need to receive a blessing.
 We need to receive a blessing better from a priest, because otherwise we'll get into
 proudness.
 If we have some success, we bring somebody into church, we'll say, "Oh, this is my accomplishment.
 Yes.
 Now more people will be in heavens because of me."
 And all of that is coming from devil.
 And it will fail.
 Our whole mission will fail.
 So if we get a blessing, we attribute any success to this blessing, which is coming
 from God himself.
 And to the prayer of this priest who gave us the blessing.
 And also later we most likely will bring people who will want to come to this priest.
 In any case, we need some parish, some church that we can invite the person to come.
 And the people in this church should know that you are doing mission basically.
 And if somebody comes, there is your friends in this parish who will invite, sorry, greet
 this person.
 Because he will feel like he is needed and somebody here is receiving him.
 And this is important.
 Maybe it will be just one, two people, other than you yourself.
 This is good.
 He is expected there.
 And the third very important point is as a missionary, we become soldiers of Christ.
 And the soldier needs weapons.
 He needs weapons.
 And our weapon is not only our faith that we have.
 We need to have some basic training in faith.
 We need to know gospel.
 Things like this.
 But physically we also need what?
 We need a few things.
 We need the first book that we would recommend someone to read about Orthodoxy, about the
 true faith.
 This not necessarily has to be a catechism.
 It can be some other book that has moved us ourselves.
 And we might have a few books.
 One for children, one for adults, youth, maybe intellectuals, one for women, different type
 of people.
 They would maybe read different types of books.
 And later they'll read other books just for the beginning you recommend something.
 You need to get that ready.
 Also maybe a movie or some video on the YouTube that immediately you can say, somebody is
 saying yes, you can give them this movie to watch.
 Some lectures, maybe even chanting or something that you think that might touch their heart.
 Another is we need to have some icons, small icons.
 We need to have some with us.
 So that anytime we can give us, in our bag or anywhere, if somebody is interested immediately
 we can give them a little present, a little icon of Jesus, Saint Mary.
 Another maybe brochures, maybe even magazines.
 If in your country there is an Orthodox magazine, you can have a few of those magazines.
 Don't give them, it's easier than a book and it's cheaper and it's something that people
 share.
 Like a newspaper you would give to someone to read.
 Now this is a magazine, you can give it to anyone to read.
 It's quite natural to give out magazines.
 Other than this, maybe a brochure.
 Maybe if you have some brochures, that's also nice.
 To have a brochure with some address, websites, maybe some Facebook pages there, some information
 about church address and stuff like that.
 And some introduction, some brief description.
 Some nice brochure if you have one.
 We don't give it out everywhere to everyone like sects, but we can have it for people
 who would really want to know more.
 Okay, now, where can we do mission?
 In which places?
 It is quite difficult now because people are separated from each other and on the street
 you won't stop someone and say, "Okay, I'll tell you about Christ."
 We do it if you are in the Orthodox country.
 It's much easier because there are big events, expos, some fairs, some concerts, some volunteer
 which also attract many people who are not church people.
 And there it's easy, it's natural to talk about people about the faith, about Orthodoxy
 and give them out things if they want to get it.
 If it's some other country, we can also participate some events which have some topics, some theme.
 Because just on the street it's not easy, it's not natural to stop people and talk with
 them about anything.
 But in some event, say it is some celebration of something or it's maybe some expo, some
 painter or composer, these events they have some topic or maybe it's a trade show which
 is maybe not fully commercial, something like a little bit maybe cultural or social, where
 people can talk more not just about business but can talk about other things.
 And there you can talk about that topic and also slowly get into faith if they want to
 talk about it.
 But if they don't, we stop and we go somewhere else.
 We have to not be persuasive, this is a very important thing.
 We don't try to scare people and go to hell, you'll go to hell or something like that.
 All of that doesn't work.
 Another thing is, in our job, in our home, neighbors, everybody has to know that we are
 Orthodox Christians.
 It should not be also persuasive, don't just go and tell them, but you need to be sure
 that they know about this.
 And of course we have good life, so that they have good impression about us.
 At some point when some of them will have some thought about faith or God, they'll know
 whom to ask and whom to talk to.
 They'll know that you are the one who will be willing to talk and who is going to church
 often.
 Everybody needs to know this.
 People need to figure out the way how to let them know, but they have to know.
 If you're hiding, if nobody knows about your faith, this is not good.
 If you're a bad person, all of us are, but if you give a bad example about faith, of
 course better people don't know about your faith.
 But we try to have a good testimony.
 Of course, also it's good to ourselves to always raise our level of knowledge about
 faith.
 We participate in all kinds of Orthodox study groups, some maybe chanting practice, it's
 better if you go to a parish, which has a lot of extra activities, Bible classes, extra
 liturgical, not only pray together, but also other things.
 We know many Orthodox who are also trying to do mission, everybody in his own way, but
 we know and we share experience.
 We need to be in that kind of environment.
 So it's good to do mission in the internet, in those chats, but not too much in Facebook.
 Not too much, because it's much more important to be involved in some real life events, and
 not to spend too much time in those social groups, because it becomes just talking, blah,
 blah, blah, just watching some pictures and wasting time and just pleasant killing time.
 It's not really bringing, and people become addicted to this.
 And it's not really any mission work.
 So we should not be too much involved in that, somewhat, but not too much.
 Okay, another thing is that we can also invite people to pray together, say in the church.
 We just invite them.
 We say, okay, we have some problem, you need to find a job, or we have somebody sick.
 Let's go and have a church together, have a prayer together in the church.
 Okay, what time, what date, maybe not on Sunday, maybe on some other day.
 And we just go, there is Akathistos, there is Moleben, there is different kinds of prayer
 service.
 And in that setting, it's not too crowded.
 We just pray with our friend or with someone who is willing to get closer to the church.
 Just pray, and you need to also be able to introduce everything in the church.
 You need to learn what everything is and to be able to have an interesting story to take
 people and explain to them.
 That's something we need to be able to do.
 And one thing, we also need to be able to have a live testimony about our faith.
 Say somebody is sick right away, okay, let's pray here and now.
 We pray and we ask God for healing and for help, for support.
 You have someone in your family sick, okay, let's pray right now, right away, okay.
 People need to feel that our faith is alive.
 It's not just abstract, some tradition, some books, okay, some ideas, no, it's alive right
 now.
 We talk to God.
 Okay, so this is the thing that we need to be able to do.
 And also we need to know that every person has a great potential for faith.
 This is like if people are sleeping, okay, like in the past people, peasants, they don't
 do anything.
 And then somebody brings some idea and people get up and go and do revolutions, something
 else.
 Those are bad, usually killing someone, but people are awakened for something bad, okay.
 In the same way, we can awake them for something good, for the search of God and His truth
 and eternal life, okay.
 So this is what we need to do and then leave it to God, His path, okay.
 We help Him on His path, but our main task is to awaken, awaken this sleeping, okay.
 The people are not thinking about it, they're immersed in the daily worries, but we need
 to make them look at another world, okay.
 And one thing that we need to also use is we need to let them discover that faith is
 not just, okay, we just add something to our life, okay.
 We just add some prayer to our life or we just learn some ideas, read some stories.
 No, the faith is another world.
 We need to make people feel this tension, that these worlds are opposed to each other.
 The world where most people live daily, care about yourself and all those things, okay.
 And there is another world of faith with Christ, with Jesus Christ, these two different realms,
 two different motives of life, of thinking, two different states of internal world, okay.
 We need them to feel, okay, that we're inviting them to enter somewhere else, to live their
 own, this old place and to see that it's not something that they need to care that
 much about, okay.
 So this is our task, this is how we do it, okay, and we need to have this clear understanding
 and always try, always try to get better, try to get more eager, to be more proactive.
 Nothing is already decided, as I said, okay.
 Many things depend on every one of us.
 What do we do?
 We do it in our testimony about Christ, in our faith, creating something good every day
 for the Lord.
 May the Lord help you and give you his blessing and this dariness and motivation.
 God bless.
