 Dear brothers and sisters, I'm recording today's video in response to a question from one of
 the subscribers about the mission in Taiwan. Well, the mission in Taiwan, the Orthodox
 mission was formed, was begun in 1901 by Saint Nicholas of Japan. He sent the first priest
 at that time, Father Simeon Yukawa, to Taipei to open the parish and also in Taichung. And
 at that time there were some catechists from Japan Orthodox already here working and some
 other faithful they've asked for the priest to come. So from that time we have the Orthodoxy
 here in Taiwan. Actually even earlier because in 1896 there was the first Orthodox Christmas
 celebrated here. And this year we've celebrated the 125th anniversary of the first Christmas
 in Taiwan. Well, today's video is not about history, it's more about the situation now.
 And in recent times the church, the mission here was revived, the parish of the Russian
 Orthodox Church was revived in 2012. That was about nine years ago. And at the time
 the Patriarch of Moscow has blessed the opening of the parish and this blessing was also given
 in Tokyo because there was a celebration of 100 year anniversary of Saint Nicholas. So
 Saint Nicholas of Japan also participated in the revival of the mission here. So at
 that time the parish in Taipei was re-established and also communities in other places like
 Taichung, Kaohsiung, Hsinchu were formed. And just this year we also formed a community
 in Hualien. This is on the west east coast of Taiwan. So now we have five communities
 all over Taiwan and some of them are bigger, some of them are smaller. But there are five
 places where we can invite people to know more about the faith and to become Orthodox,
 which is the main task of a missionary. And the development of the mission was like this.
 Basically the task that we had in the first place is to create stronger communities, Orthodox
 communities. There were already people, Orthodox people here in Taiwan at that time. And it
 is important to have those communities because to learn about faith it's important to participate
 in community life. It's not just someone telling things, sharing faith with another.
 This is good, but it's not enough. It's important that a person becomes part of the church in
 a community. So the communities were mainly Russian speaking, but also we had English
 speakers, Americans, and people from different countries from Serbia, from Georgia, from
 Greece, and we of course from Russian speaking countries like Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and
 Kazakhstan, and other places. But the challenge was not to have it only as a foreigner community,
 that it had to be open also to the Taiwanese, to the locals, so that they could feel at
 home in this community. So this also was a challenge. So at that time we've introduced
 faith everywhere. We began introducing both for the already Orthodox people, but not churchgoers,
 in the Russian community participating in all kinds of events of the community so that
 all people could know, could learn about faith. There are over 1,000 Russian speakers in Taiwan,
 mainly Russians, Ukrainians, and Belarusians. And it is important to have this church community
 for them here also. But this task was similar to other parishes in other places, in other
 countries, other parishes of the Russian Orthodox Church. So the parish here in Taiwan had to
 also embrace people from everywhere, and very importantly the local Taiwanese people. At
 the time there were already few, not many, Orthodox Taiwanese, and they also came to
 the church and participated in the church life. We had to create classes for children,
 and we also had English classes for the Taiwanese. But the main missionary efforts were like
 this. There was one missionary who said that if nobody loves you, you just need to be in
 a place where people can see you. So you just sometimes just need to be there for the mission
 to exist, to run. So this was one of the principles why we had little communities in almost every
 big place in Taiwan. And also a very important rule of the mission is that there has to be
 a living connection with God. So the prayer is super important for the mission. It's not
 just a brand that you need just to promote everywhere. It's not just some philosophy
 or some school of teaching or some club that you just need to make people invited to. There
 has to be a close relationship, direct link with God. So prayer is of super importance
 for the church mission. If there is a blessing from God, there will be people coming and
 joining because they feel this union that there is one. So it was a great effort, not
 just to pray, but also to translate or revise the translation of liturgy and other prayers
 into Chinese, into the local language here. And we've spent some time doing this and we
 still have projects ongoing in the gospel translation and other texts and prayer translation.
 So this is a very important task for the mission. And well, in terms of introducing a faith
 and going out, reaching out, we've tried many ways, many methods. One was just a street
 mission, just on the street in big night markets. We had a stand, we had icon and a movie introducing
 the faith and we had brochures inviting people to the church. And of course we did not go
 and give it to everyone, just people who would be coming to us and we would talk to them.
 And only after that we would give them a brochure so that it's not persuasive. And well, in
 those places, there were thousands of people passing by every hour and maybe every hour,
 just maybe three or four would come over to our stand and to receive, to talk, to ask
 questions. So only that people we invited and some of them, they came to church. Well,
 overall this was not very effective. This is very tiresome, but we could do it if we
 have more resources, more manpower, more missionaries. A lot of things that can be done in a mission
 depends on the people. It depends not on funds, on money. It depends on the people who are
 eager to introduce, to share, to do testimony about their faith, and also their talents
 to determine what kind of mission you can do. We saw it also in other places like Philippines
 and Papua New Guinea and in East Timor. Those are the places where we, the Taiwan parish,
 also went and our missionaries went and we've tried to develop missions there. So that overall
 we have support of each other. There will be more Orthodox Christians in this Asia Pacific
 region in Southeast Asia that can help each other and support each other and we can do
 more things together. So this was also one of the tasks of the mission here in Taiwan
 and it worked with the help of God. So now, other than the street mission, we've done
 a mission in the universities, because some people are learning about religion. There
 are some centers learning the Russian-Russian language. So in some places just introducing
 Orthodox faith, in others introducing Russian or Byzantine culture, because it's very much
 intertwined with faith, with Orthodox faith. So people who are learning about learning
 the Russian language or Russian culture, they would also be willing to know the faith of
 the Russian people. And that way they can know more about truth and the true Orthodox
 Christian faith. So, of course, this needs a clear distinction, that this is not just
 faith of Russians. It just happened that Russians embraced this faith, but the faith is universal
 and it's open to everyone. Also, we invite other groups to come into the parish in the
 church, including Catholic students from Furan University, Theologate or Department of Religion,
 just parishioners of Catholic parishes, to come and see and discover the Orthodox faith.
 And our task is just to drop the seed and then it's up to the Lord to decide, okay,
 to do the work and if the seed will grow. And if people come and they're willing to
 become Orthodox, well, this is not because we pull them in, it's just because the Lord
 is doing his work. So this is one of the important principles of the mission. So this is what
 we also actively do now. We are developing the internet mission, which is very important,
 like these YouTube videos. And we also had people, the Taiwanese who developed mission
 in the social networks, in Facebook and in local Taiwanese and Chinese speaking communities,
 boards. That also works. We are not doing that now very much, but we could if we have
 more people willing to do that. The local mother tongue, Chinese, Taiwanese people.
 So other things that we do for the mission is we have regular classes for Taiwanese.
 Every week we have either weekly or once in two weeks a class so that everyone who is
 interested in the faith can come and see and listen and ask questions, not just reading
 books or searching in the internet, but can have a live discussion about faith. And we're
 inviting not only Catholic humans who decided to become Orthodox, but also it's called listeners.
 People who are just want to listen and to know more about faith. And they don't make
 any commitment yet. So this is also a door for people to come into the church.
 We also have cooperation with other places like Hong Kong and Moscow, which is the people
 there are working with the Chinese, introducing the Orthodox faith in Chinese with the United
 States also, and inviting missionaries to do some practice, do some training here in
 Taiwan, missionary training. And in the past, we had the many seminarians coming here from
 Moscow Theological Seminary and this number of people who are interested in the mission
 towards Taiwanese and Chinese, using Chinese language is growing. It has to grow so that
 there will be more mission capabilities in the future.
 Well, this is what we are doing now. And also for the future, we are hoping that one day
 we can build a church in Taipei and a mission center that would have training programs for
 missionaries from abroad and for the Taiwanese to become catechumens, to be catechists, sorry,
 and to catechize and in the future become priests. That hopefully can happen one day.
 And also, we need to make the community stronger, the faith much stronger, more people praying,
 more people participating actively in church projects, doing more translation work so that
 the more material is available. And hopefully we can enter the Chinese mainland internet
 at some point to introduce the faith there more and to have more development in the region
 overall. We should not have this limited thinking that only one place is one place, localization.
 We need to have a broader mindset because even our classes in the catechism, we have
 a Zoom meeting for other people from all around the world to participate and to hear, to listen.
 So all of that is what we do. And the main thing, of course, what we need is we need
 the faith to be alive and strong and burning. It's not just a matter of us living and existing,
 knowing things and doing lectures. It's a matter of a life relationship with Christ
 and a powerful testimony about God's Word to everyone with his blessing and being inspired
 by him. This is what is very important. The spiritual content, the spiritual element of
 the mission is of the most important. We are here to conquer evil, to overthrow demons
 and to bring Christ into homes, hearts, families of the people here, local Taiwanese people
 to be resurrected by Christ with his help, by his grace and with his blessing. And you're
 also welcome to participate in any of our projects. Please ask questions and to learn
 more, to discover more together. May God bless every one of you. Amen.
