 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about the spiritual authority that the
 Church is very often lacking and what is the true source of this authority that the whole
 world may be listening to the testimony of the Church and there won't be so many scandals
 and so many people diverted away from the Church. And very often we consider wrong things
 to be the source of authority and this is the big problem. And in modern times the problem
 is big because we are in very difficult times and decisive times. The Church-wise in the
 Orthodox Church we have internal quarrels right now and maybe splits. And in the world
 overall we have this great reset, we have these uncertainties coming from this re-transformation
 of this world and we don't know what will be in the future. It may be bad, it may be
 good, it's now very uncertain. With the state of society right now the things are not very
 optimistic because we have traditional moral values destroyed, family values are destroyed,
 we have this postmodernist mindset, there are no cultural things preserved, almost everything
 is destroyed. It becomes only artifacts of history. So we are not in good shape as humanity
 overall and as the Church overall. And the times we are on the crossroads right now and
 we have all this religious syncretism. Everything is about the same and all different kinds
 of sects and everything is just mixed together and all these cults are coming from everywhere.
 Shamanism and yoga and whatnot. Many different things. And the true faith is very weak right
 now. So in these times of temptation and crisis we need to know what are the true factors
 that can make us strong in our testimony about Christ. And very often wrong things
 were considered the source of authority. Today I want to talk about these five things which
 are not really and then I'll talk about what is the true source of authority. The first
 thing that sometimes people advocate is glorious history. Our church has a background and for
 example that was a problem in Rome. We have so many saints in Rome, we have apostles preaching
 in Rome and this is such a historical glory and all these things. But later we saw that
 this is not working and the whole Roman Church left and became far away from the true Church.
 We have some churches destroyed. There was in this small Asia, Asia Minor, we had many
 glorious churches but later now it's all Turkey. There are no churches there almost. Those
 glorious churches are all gone. The Church of Carthage is gone. So we cannot really count
 on this. There were some super glorious bishops in Constantinople, John the Chrysostom or
 others. So this is why we have such spiritual. People don't really care about this so much.
 And we see that it doesn't work. It doesn't withstand this test of time. Another thing
 that is wrong is an appeal to legalistic thing. For example saying that by the law of the
 Church now it's, for example, the Vatican is the center. There are many Orthodox people
 now who say we have this descendancy from the apostles with the laying of hands. So
 there is this grace coming from the apostles. This is why we are the chairs of the apostles,
 or bishops, and now this is the source of their authority. This is very weak because
 we know that many bishops, many patriarchs, popes, became heretics or big sinners. Holy
 people also said that the hell is full of bishops. So this laying of hands did not help
 them. Overall, of course, this is true. I'm not saying it's not true that the grace is
 coming from the apostles, but it doesn't guarantee anything. And this is why the whole churches
 sometimes left into heresy where all the bishops were ordained by canonical bishops. So this
 is an external thing. We can say so. This is a legalistic thing. It's valid, but to
 a certain extent. It's not really a very strong point. Another wrong thing is when we say
 the authority is coming from the national spirit. It's a glorious history of our nation
 and many people in Europe, many nations have this spirit because it's Bulgarian or Russian
 or Serbian or Greek or Georgian. This is why we have such a strong nation and we have such
 a good history. And this is why it's super good. This is also very weak. It's not persuading
 people. People are seeking for truth coming from Christ who is above any nation. So this
 is also some relative thing. It's good. I'm not saying it's bad to have a strong nation
 and many Christians and many saints glorified God through their lives in certain nations.
 But this is not the main factor. It's quite relative. The whole nation sometimes becomes
 atheist and becomes something else. So we cannot count on this. And this is a big problem
 for the Orthodoxies. They become segregated nation-wise. Different nations have different
 local churches. And this is making our testimony about Christ weaker. The fourth thing is any
 kind of declaration. Any kind of declaration that we say, for example, Moscow is the third
 Rome. It's so strong, powerful idea. And this is why we have the truth and things like this.
 This is also not persuading because it has to not come from some slogan or some kind
 of brand. It's not McDonald's. In the regular world, you can say McDonald's is quality.
 It's such a good brand. And yes, if it's McDonald's, you have to eat it. The church is not McDonald's.
 It's not relying on these kinds of things, any slogans or any kind of things like that.
 So this is not a source of true spiritual authority. And the last source, which is not
 really a good source, we have a lot of churches. A lot of churches and it's very beautiful
 and many icons and it's many gold and many ancient things and relics of holy people and
 holy things, parts of the cross of Christ and this and that. And this is why you see
 how great authority does the church have. Well, this is for people. It's not convincing
 for most people. Maybe it can be used as a... Well, of course, the holy things, it's very
 good for a motivation of faith that people can go and draw inspiration and strengthen
 their faith looking at these saints. But also, this can be useful for a mission just to catch
 attention that people see, "Oh, church. Oh, it's something important." They understand,
 but at some point they need to see behind. They need to see that it's not just this.
 It's not just nice singing and some interesting stuff inside. There is behind is God himself
 and the sanctity and holy life, and they can be part of the body of Christ. Then yes, but
 otherwise all these things, people will be interested for a while and then it's gone.
 Okay. It's finished. Okay. So most people are quite superficial and they don't really
 get what is behind. So this is why it's not working. Okay. So we see that all these five
 things that I've listed are not real source of authority. They can have some validity.
 It's not garbage. They're important, but not very important, very crucial. And what is
 very important? Now let us say what is very important. The first is purity of faith. The
 faith has to be a hundred percent authentic without any subjective additions. If it's
 many different sects, everybody has his own idea. One Bible, but everybody has different
 interpretation. Why should I believe yours? It's not really persuading. And to have this
 authentic, true faith coming from apostles without any addition, any change, anything.
 It's the authentic faith. This is one important thing. Another important thing, and maybe
 even more important is the holiness of life. Okay. Holiness of life, meaning that people
 really follow Christ in how they live, in the way how they treat people, that they have
 love in their hearts. This comes through two things, mainly through ascitism and through
 prayer. Okay. Killing your old, selfish self and having Christ grow in you. Okay. This
 is done. And prayer is also strength of your faith, that you ask God to help and you have
 dialogue with him. Okay. These things are very important. If we have patriarchs or bishops,
 they have big cars and big castles. They like stuff. How they can say that, okay, you need
 to help the poor, you need to reject yourself and stuff like this, not being attached to
 any world. They cannot say this. Okay. They have no moral right to say things like this
 because they themselves are immersed in all this wealth. Okay. So holiness of life. This
 is very important. Third thing is what did you sacrifice for Christ? Did you sacrifice
 something? Why in the early church those confessors and martyrs had a great authority. Confessors
 are those who were tortured for their faith and they did not reject. They remained loyal,
 faithful to Christ. Everybody else would come later for advice to them. Okay. Because people
 saw that these people are truly, they sacrificed many things for Christ. They were handicapped.
 They were without eyes. They really withstood big tortures. Nowadays we don't have that
 much. So what we can sacrifice? Many people need to go to sacrifice their time, to minister
 to the poor, maybe leave their country, leave their families, to do God's work. Okay. This
 is important. They really sacrifice something for Christ, for the sake of the gospel. Okay.
 So this brings authority, spiritual authority. We need to be ready for that. Okay. Another
 related to this, the fourth source is what is your ministry to Christ? What do you do
 to minister Christ? It may be a social work. It may be mission work. Okay. It's some active
 involvement in some kind of task for the name of Christ. Because sometimes in the Orthodox
 church, we have people, they pray a lot in the church. They go to service, but other
 than that, they don't do much. Okay. And people say, why Buddhists do these and other sects
 do a lot of, okay. They build hospitals. They, they, they have orphanages, but you don't
 do it. Okay. Why? Okay. And this also makes our message, our testimony weak. Okay. So
 we need to have a good balance. Okay. Prayer and active ministry. Another, and maybe the
 last source of authority is a living word. What do I mean by that? Our testimony about
 faith has to include a life word. Okay. That we testify for truth. We not just use some
 textbooks or the some bureaucratic legalistic this speech. Okay. This nice and okay. But
 it's all poly politically correct. And it's all under this spirit of this world. Okay.
 Catering to the spirit of this world. We, we have to have a life word, which is not
 afraid of anything, which is, which can dare to say the truth, not afraid of it. Okay.
 And willing to share and do this testimony. So let us, let us remember about this. And
 these five things we are sometimes lacking. We are lacking. We need to remember that this
 is important in the church. Sometimes there is temptation. Some people say, well, it's
 all Providence of the Lord. Okay. If we don't have any people come to church, well, the
 Lord cannot bring them to the church. So, okay. And we will just wait while the Providence
 will arrange for things. And it will not happen if we don't do things. Okay. If we are not
 active. Okay. If we don't care about these five things that I've mentioned just now.
 So let us be very eager in our faith. Not wait for something. Okay. Be alive. Be bringing
 fruit. We need to bring fruit of faith. Let us change ourselves and let us do this witness,
 this testimony. Okay. Then many people will come to the church. Many people who are walking
 around there, looking at the church, but they don't see what they need to see. Okay. Okay.
 And we need to remember what is very important and what is Christ waiting from every one
 of us. May the Lord help you and give you his blessing and his wisdom, his obedience
 to the God, not selfishness, and guide you on this path of Christian testimony. I mean,
 God bless.
