 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about artificial intelligence and how it's related
 to our faith and to the final days of this world. Because with this reset that is taking place,
 there will be more and more digital, more and more AI, and some people don't see any danger in it.
 They just say, well, it's a development of science, it brings a lot of convenience,
 but we need to look behind these superficial things. I don't want to make it scary,
 and we are not afraid of anything, we're not afraid of people, of machines, of Antichrist,
 we're not afraid. But we need to understand what is happening, what is going on, and how to treat
 things that take place. Well, what is artificial intelligence? You know what it is,
 in daily life it will mean that you don't have people in the government offices, in banks,
 it will be machines, you come, you apply for some documents, for some subsidies, for your child to
 be taken to school, and many, many things. It will be done just robot, it will answer your questions,
 and it will also make assessment and make decisions. And it will be very convenient,
 because you don't have to stand up in long lines, you don't have to worry that
 the clerk will be unpleasant, or unhappy, or corrupt, for that matter. There will be
 no corruption, because everything will be transparent, it will be just algorithms
 that are working. So it seems to be very nice and very convenient. However,
 let us consider deeply what also may be involved. Well, there are of course tons of different
 examples, what is AI, all those smart fridges, smart toilets, smart everything. You can
 do this research yourself, this is all out there. Today we will talk more about the spiritual
 implications of this. Well, this will mean that this AI, it will know everything about everybody,
 including your health information, including your hobbies, your contacts,
 because they need to trace, to track where you went and whom you met with, to avoid this
 virus spreading. So it will know pretty much everything about you. And with face recognition
 you can use your face to access whatever you are supposed to access. And there will be
 much advantage in this. And people say "well, this is like cars, you invent cars, you invent
 computers, you cannot go against it, it's just science". Well, science is science, but we need to
 see what will it mean for every one of us. It will also trace, track everything you do, where you are
 right now. It will predict where you will go, what you're gonna do. It will know about your
 values, about what kind of friends you have, your political views, your religious views.
 It will know what products to sell, how to sell it to you. And already we see this
 with Google and Facebook and they know what kind of things you're searching. All that data,
 big data, is also assembled. And basically it knows you better than you know yourself.
 So later it will also do this social rating. Are you reliable? Are you not reliable? Your behavior?
 Your credit worthiness? Many things are already introduced. It's not something new, but it would
 be more of that. Like in China they have this social ratings. And then it will
 also make the decision how much goods to give to you. They're now talking about this exclusive
 capitalism, which is a little bit like socialism. So it will also decide are you worthy of
 something? Should we give more or should we give less? Should we restrict you? How much freedom
 should you have? Should you be allowed to go overseas or to another country or anywhere?
 Okay, so all of that eventually. This is what they wanted. Maybe it's not tomorrow all these things.
 Now they're trying with QR codes and stuff. Maybe it will be much later, but this is where it's
 heading to. We already can see the picture. And with these pandemics we also see
 that we're not free as we thought. Just immediately everything is down. All the
 airlines and everything is down. Even in some countries you cannot go outside of your house,
 of your room, apartment. You have to be locked in there. So many things we already
 can see with what is happening. They want to make it prolonged, to have a long-running effect.
 Also this intelligence, it will be used to form your world of you, your mindset.
 Especially the younger generation. They will be affected the most. But older people also will
 try to shape their views of the world, their values, their morals.
 And basically everything will come from there. And the main thing is that you will not be able to
 object. There will be no one to blame. It is just algorithm. If it will be in the government, if the
 whole government is going to be run, or some functions of the government will be run by this
 thing, it will mean that it doesn't need any opposition. The computer doesn't need
 opposition. You cannot rally against it or propose some alternative. No, it will be there.
 And most interestingly, it will be embraced by everyone. Everybody is going to like it.
 Because it's going to be convenient, it's going to be smooth, it will make your life easier,
 you don't have to worry about many things, and it has no corruption. So basically it will be embraced
 globally, on the global scale. So if you want to go against it, you need to have a
 global movement against it. And it will be very marginal. The number of people who will
 have some issue with it will be quite marginal. So you won't be able to to do anything about it.
 Basically you'll be squeezed in these rules that we will impose.
 And eventually, of course, at some point it may even punish you for
 for any disagreement with this thing. Oh, many dystopias. We can see many movies,
 these dystopian movies, and now they're talking officially that this is something that may happen.
 And what is important is that it's not that important who is doing it. It's some occult,
 some world government, some guys who are so evil. Well, this is not that important because
 the Lord... Okay, let's talk about faith now. The Lord mentioned prince of this world,
 that he is coming and he has nothing in me. And this prince of this world is what? It's the mamon.
 Basically it's all this power that is moving people because of greed, because of desires,
 because they want to consume more and nicer things and build luxurious houses. And this
 is the mamon which is out there. And it has nothing to do with Christ. So this thing is out
 there and already many centuries. It just not came. And this thing is trying to get rid of the
 church. And in the ancient times it was the emperors who wanted everybody to worship them.
 And there was cult of emperor and follow them ideologically. So they saw that the church is
 a threat. So they persecuted the church. Then we have in the Soviet times, we have this Lenin and
 other totalitarian governments that also oppressed the church to try to eliminate it. And the church
 considered them antichrists. But all of that was for the purpose. That was all done to prepare
 for what is to come. So the problem is not those individual guys who were dictators and stuff.
 The problem is what is behind the spirit, the guys that is behind them. And this spirit is out
 there. It didn't go anywhere. And it's stronger than any other time. It's got more capabilities
 nowadays. So what this prince of this world, what he wants? He wants an upgrade basically.
 He wants an electronic network, a mesh that will be so stable that you cannot overthrow it.
 That is gonna be just there. So it won't be in this country, in that country some ideology or
 this ideology. It will be just there. They want to have it absolutely unbreakable and have full
 and total control of everything. And this will become an ongoing process, enabling
 the capabilities of this AI system. The whole world will get AI. And it will be total and
 global. And most importantly, the people will be willing to do this. The whole development of this
 thing will be like the progress of humanity. iPhone 10 is better than iPhone 9. And in that sense,
 all this will be tighter and tighter and tighter, the whole regime. And now we can think about
 coming of the Antichrist. And the Holy Fathers tell us that it's not the Antichrist
 who will come first, the final one. There were many in the earlier times. But the final one,
 before he comes, will be first the kingdom of Antichrist. And that is regime, you can say.
 Or this system, the world order. The new world order version X. We don't know which version.
 Now we're coming to a new world order with this pandemic. There will be a newer and newer and
 newer. This will be a new world order number whatever. And this will happen. We know that
 this will happen from the Bible. We don't know when. Maybe after 100 years, maybe after
 1000 years. We don't know. But we know that it will happen at some point. And also, you can think
 of this AI thing. If everybody embraces it. Now with these pandemics, we have these laws enacted
 in many countries. In Russia, for example. Many other places the AI has to be implemented.
 And everybody is talking about it. It will be done. And it will be more and more. And people
 will like it. And the majority of people. So do you think it will go anywhere? Well, I don't think
 it will go anywhere. It will be with us. With humanity. Maybe till the rest of the
 days. And it will be more and more of it. So we can logically understand that in the times
 of Antichrist, whenever that may be, those things, the AI. Antichrist will use AI. Put it simple.
 So which version? We don't know. But it will use AI. Why? Well, because it will be very handy.
 It can know everything about you. It can control you. It can educate you. It can eliminate you if
 it doesn't agree with you. It will be your everything. And in the Bible, in Psalm
 17 verse 2, if we translate it from Greek, we can say that the meaning is "my destiny
 comes from your face or from your presence". So our destiny. And there is another way to translate it.
 The judgment comes from your face. From you. And our destiny, if we embrace all that stuff,
 will come from where? Not from our boss. Not from somewhere else. It will come from that machine.
 The AI will decide. It will make the judgment about you. Do you deserve something or not?
 So the people will see that this is the source of everything for them. At some
 point it will have religious meaning, because everything is going to come from there. Everything
 that decides the whole destiny. If you had a pet, you don't give them something.
 Their destiny comes from your face, from your presence, from your hand.
 Completely controlled by you. You don't give them anything, they'll die.
 In the same sense, this will be the case. So Antichrist instead of God, instead of Christ.
 The savior. And it will come as a savior. The whole system will save people. So now they
 are saying, now we have those poor people and they are abandoned. We need inclusive capitalism.
 We need to care about them. The poor countries, we need to care about them. It will sound really nice.
 Liberate them. Give them freedom. Give them resources. Give the planet ecology.
 Save us from from pandemics and many other things. It will be like a savior coming.
 And every time you hear savior, you need to think about the true savior. Maybe this is coming
 instead of him. And in your heart, you will be more grateful to this thing than you are grateful
 to Jesus Christ. So this is why we also recall the words of apostle Paul who said that we are
 Christians. We are like garbage for this world. This world doesn't want us. Because it wants
 to live in sin, in all this filthiness. It wants to enjoy all this corrupted thing.
 But the church, the light is shining and it becomes evident that this is evil.
 And of course it's unhappy. This world, this corrupted world, sinful world is unhappy about
 having this thing. So Christianity needs to go. And even for many decades we see big cathedrals
 all empty. Nobody goes there. So it's not something that's just happening now. Now it's just one of
 these stages. People abandoned Christ, abandoned church. It's been already for centuries.
 And it will be a next step, so to say. And that's why everybody's so excited about these
 new things that are coming. They will replace Christ even more thoroughly. At some point
 now we don't have direct persecution, but at some point we'll have it. And there won't be that
 many people who will object. Maybe even there will be churches that are sort of nominally
 Christians, but they won't be Christian anymore. So let us know about this willingness of this
 Satan. Apostle Paul himself said that we are knowledgeable about plans of Satan. Today we
 discuss plans of the Satan. It's nothing to be afraid of, but we just need to know.
 Whenever we hear something about AI, it's not that we are just afraid of it and we run away.
 But we know that it can have its own implications. So we need to be wise. And also an important thing
 is that the church very often, this is related to the words of Apostle Paul, that we are the garbage
 of this world. The important thing is that the church very often survives wherever there is
 mercy. So for example in the Soviet times there were food talons, tickets to get food, and they
 were not given to priests so that they would die out. But people had mercy and they could
 give their ticket to the priest or get some food to him. Also some churches were not allowed to
 exist, some parishes, but the local government clerk would have a grandma or some relative faithful
 who would tell him, "Well, let them exist. Don't close it." And they would say, "Okay, just be silent
 and I will let you be." So this mercy is there, this human factor. And wherever this
 window of human factor the church can exist there. And with AI there will be no human factor.
 It will be taken out from the brackets. It will be just the system. This is the answer.
 Finish. Period. And at some point everything will be controlled so much to such an extent that
 you cannot run. It's over for you. So let us be mindful of that. Let us
 not be just think so rosy, everything is fine. Be vigilant. Christ tells us. Be vigilant.
 Don't be afraid, but be vigilant and strong in your faith. And use every day that you have
 to do something meaningful, to do something good for the glory of God. May the Lord help every one of
 you and bless you. Amen.
