 To your brothers and sisters, today I want to say a few words about how these pandemics influenced people, and how are we changing.
 It's been over one year that this began all over the world, and we already can make some conclusions.
 And we can try, by looking at what's happening, to become stronger and to avoid some of these influences,
 and help other people around us avoid and get stronger in faith, instead of being broken.
 Well, the first thing that is obvious is people become alienated from each other.
 The social attachment and interaction between people becomes broken or very weak.
 If we communicate through Zoom, through Skype, Internet, it's very different from personal communication.
 Many things we wouldn't say over the phone. We need to meet with people, we need to socialize, we need to drink some tea and talk to them.
 And now, this became impossible for many people, or very rare.
 Some people are locked down in their rooms, and they are divided.
 And also, other people are perceived as a source of threat, or disease, or death.
 So, we are afraid of each other, become more egoistic, our instincts come out.
 These egoistic instincts.
 And others, it's another problem, I have my own castle here in my room, and everybody else let them die, if they die, it's their problem.
 So, more of this.
 And some people even become sociopaths.
 They don't want to approach people, they are afraid of people.
 These psychological problems arise.
 And of course, the devil wants to break people apart, we can see.
 Most of the things which I will talk about today is not some conspiratology.
 It is just the objective, just to see what's happening.
 And what implications might there be spiritually and for the church life, Christian life.
 Also, we see that fear is propagated.
 People, their will is broken.
 Fear is everywhere, people are afraid of everything.
 Future, what will happen in the future?
 I have no way out, I'm stuck.
 Many people have depression, and other kinds of psychological problems.
 Many families have big quarrels, this domestic violence.
 We have a problem of losing the goal in life.
 Why do I live? It's just all my plans, it's all broken.
 Many things, a lot of people resort to alcoholism, drugs.
 I know you know this, but just today to summarize this, I want to say all those things.
 One important thing is that people lose their identity with these masks.
 People become like shades walking around.
 We never know the soul of a person, but from the face, very often we can at least have a feel.
 But now, no, everybody is hidden and it becomes like no identity world.
 No self and identity, it becomes like a mass.
 The mass thing will be more, this mass culture, mass thinking.
 People will less think, have their own thinking about things.
 Many things that we'll see, it's been around already, but now it got worse.
 It's getting worse with this pandemics thing.
 You're not personality anymore.
 Also, you become to more rely not on yourself, your abilities, on your talents.
 You begin to rely more on some subsidies, some government help, and some restrictions, laws.
 You are seeking for this thing for salvation, not from the Savior, but from someone else, some other third party.
 So, you become more dependent.
 Losing many abilities, many things that the developed world was striving for to have personal freedoms and democracies.
 Now, we are just forfeiting all of that.
 And it's, of course, for your benefit.
 It's a very tricky thing.
 It's as though it's for your benefit, but you become nothing.
 You become garbage.
 And the small business is destroyed, the middle class is destroyed.
 It's being destroyed slowly.
 So that most people will be just much deprived of properties, of rights.
 There will be, of course, some super lucky ones.
 Not lucky, of course, but they will think that they're lucky.
 So, everybody else is pushed out, is pushed to this low level.
 And you're limited in transportation, where you can go, where you can travel.
 It's limiting your... and you get used to it, people get used to it.
 People also, another thing, are getting used to total surveillance.
 This is what I've talked about last time, you can see the last video about the AI.
 And all your contacts and everything.
 And people also get used to it.
 Very important that people are pulled out, pulled away from the church.
 They're alienated from the church.
 They get used to staying at home.
 For more than a year, many people didn't go to church or went very few times.
 And now they are told, well, it's the same thing. You don't really need to have it.
 You can watch on TV and that will be good enough, maybe even better, more comfortable and stuff.
 So, the fundamental principle of Christianity is that as a church we gather together.
 Only then we are the body of Christ, not myself.
 It's only when we are all together we are the body of Christ.
 And it will be less important for people, become less important.
 And this spirit of God in my heart, this idea will be more and more popular.
 Which is heretic, which is far away.
 It will be not real God, it will be something else.
 And also it's teaching people that prayer is useless.
 Holy Communion is useless. You see, it's not helping you.
 You went to church but it didn't help you. You're still stuck and your relatives are sick or dead.
 So, basically no need to pray that much. You need to think about money first.
 And that will be your salvation.
 Of course, many sins will be also facilitated.
 When you are locked down in your room, many things you go into the internet,
 you have a bad mood and you find entertainment there.
 And it's sinful, most of the time.
 And the devil, it's easier for him to break one person than to break the whole family.
 Or to break the church.
 One by one he is breaking people.
 He's finding a way, a key to everyone.
 And also, of course, the laziness becomes very common.
 People just don't want to do anything.
 They get used not to work or just work online a little bit in the time that they prefer.
 So, it will be becoming more and more lazy.
 But the people will feel that they are more powerful.
 Because you just push the button, you call and the food comes.
 And you don't need to go to a restaurant, you don't need to even do anything.
 And this is another thing.
 All of that we have already, but it's going to be much worse because of this.
 And electronic money will prosper, more and more.
 It's more safe, it's more convenient.
 You can do mining, which is just coming from nowhere.
 This money.
 And the money is basically a substitute for grace in the secular world.
 Because this is a source of all pleasures, all desires.
 And you just have money and you have everything.
 So, this is a substitute for grace.
 And people will not need grace.
 They will find comfort in this prosperity and pleasure that comes.
 You don't need a real relationship.
 You can buy people with money.
 But all of that is fake.
 All of that comes from the devil.
 So, that will be more of that.
 And we need to be aware of that.
 People are separated from nature, alienated.
 In nature, you can feel the real world.
 God talks to people very often through nature.
 You can get spiritual help, support.
 But now you're locked down in the rooms and you're broken.
 You don't have that.
 So, you find everything in your laptop, in the internet.
 This is another thing.
 People are more and more reliant on the digital thing.
 Everything is going to be digital, digitalized more and more.
 And there is no...
 The digital thing is a danger of Basel.
 It's another big topic.
 It can replace many things, many human things.
 Many spiritual things are replaced by digital.
 And virtual is even more dangerous because virtual is not real.
 And we know that in the Antichrist time, everything is going to be virtual.
 People will live in virtual reality.
 We can see it from the Revelation.
 And now it's going to be more and more virtual.
 You get some machines that give you some pleasure.
 You will have something that will be real.
 And you will be traveling and you will be doing whatever you want.
 But it's going to be virtual.
 We already have it, of course, but it's going to be much, much more.
 As a result of this pandemic thing, which we don't know how it will last, for how long.
 And we will be more split away from knowledge.
 Because true knowledge, you cannot get it just from the Internet.
 You need to have communication, real life communication with a professor, with other students.
 This distance education is very weak.
 So people will be more and more separated from it.
 And you are less disciplined.
 You don't have a discipline.
 If you can watch something anytime you want, learn your lesson anytime.
 It's very different that you are okay.
 Eight o'clock, everybody is in the classroom, we begin.
 It's quite different.
 So it will be like slipping into these dark ages.
 In terms of knowledge, in terms of education.
 And the less knowledge you have, the easier to manipulate you are.
 So we see all these developments taking place in our days, every day.
 And we need ourselves to be the oasis of different mindsets, different lives.
 We have to be relying upon Christ and drawing energy and revelation from Him.
 And helping others, helping people around us to overcome all these things.
 To be stronger, not to give up, not to be broken.
 And use it for benefit and not to be led astray and be enslaved.
 Eventually be enslaved by this system that is coming.
 Let this new world order that is coming, that they want to build.
 Let us be strong, wise, and have strong faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
 May His grace and blessing be upon you. Amen.
