 Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church has entered into the Passion Week. We have
 entered together with Christ into Jerusalem. We just celebrated the Palm Sunday with palms
 and branches. We were greeting the King of the Universe to enter into this Holy City of God,
 the city of Jerusalem to reveal, to accomplish his mission. And his mission was the mission of Messiah
 taking upon himself the sins of the whole world and rescuing us from bondage of death and slavery.
 And this was done in a very strange way because he did not possess power, he did not take influence
 and throne and did not call people to become some political party. But he was surrendered
 and betrayed and beaten, humiliated and crucified and he died. And then he rose, he resurrected on
 the third day, winning over death and sin. And when we recall these things, we also recall that
 at the same day the Lord enters the Jerusalem, Pontius Pilate, the governor of that region of
 Palestine came from Caesarea of Palestine and this was the capital at that time. And he came
 also to Jerusalem. Maybe he came to fix this issue of the revolt of Barabbas who killed someone
 and he was put in prison. Maybe he came because of the Pesach, the Pascha which was coming,
 Jewish feast. We don't know exactly for which reason he came but he also entered into Jerusalem,
 maybe through different gates. And this makes us think of how do we relate to political
 issues and power. Because this time the world is in turmoil. We know with this great reset
 they are saying that for about five years, maybe more, the world will be shaking from
 all kinds of political turmoil, revolts, rallies, revolutions. We saw this happening last year
 began in the United States and there will be much more because of social tension that
 leaks out and many other things. As soon as this quarantine is lifted, these regulations,
 people will begin doing all kinds of crazy things. And this requires us to think deeply
 how do we, whom do we support, whom do we criticize, which part do we take. And
 we need to think deeply about this because we will discover that if we take ourselves and say I'm
 socialist or say I am capitalist, I am democrat, I am republican, I am some party, I am this.
 Basically you have not yet understood the meaning of Christian faith. Because Christian, for him,
 God is, Christ is on the first place. And he takes everything that comes from Christ as absolute
 truth. But everything that happens in this world is very relative. And Satan is using this politics,
 he divides people in order to conquer the world. And if we divide ourselves like this, we believe
 that I am okay, I am democrat, or whatever. Then we basically are used by him in his job,
 in his play, in his game. But this doesn't mean that we should not care about politics. Now many
 people they say I don't care about any politics, whatever. No, it's not Christian way. So this,
 today we will talk about this. Maybe about a month ago I already had a video on this. If you,
 I recommend also look into it. Today we will talk about it from a different angle.
 First of all, we see that every political turmoil that happens, okay, brings some people in prison
 and some people dead. Some families broken and many a lot of suffering. And this is what happens
 when we are entering into this game of politics. So we need to understand that this is some game
 and it has its rules. And if we enter into it, we will have to play these rules. For example, say
 you support some party. In case this party gets into power, it will have to deal with its
 adversary, political opponent. It will have to exile some people, some people in prison,
 and maybe even kill some people. Punishment or something else. And even if it doesn't do
 some of these things, it has to be ready to do it in the heart. It already has this decision
 that if needed I will do it. And also in order to get to this power, very often you need violence
 and you need to shed blood. So we know that you have to receive this. If you play this game,
 you need to be ready to play it till the end. And you will do these things. So it's 100% cynical.
 You have to be a cynic. And you have to have a different logic. That your political opponent,
 you destroy him. You use all kinds of ways, means to destroy him politically or physically.
 There is no space for love or enemies, the commandment that Jesus gave to us. There is no
 room for that. So it's like you're in a yard where the rules are everybody kicks each other and
 whoever wins, he gets everything. So if you are dropped into that place, into that yard, you either
 also kick others, or they'll kick you and you'll be down and you'll be out. There is no other. You
 cannot tell him about high values and some good things. It's just hitting each other. It may be
 nice words acting like you're a very nice man, but actually it's a very tough game. You hit each
 other and kill each other. So you will have to play by these rules. So if we are really
 struggling to get into some kind of political influence, this is what we will have to play.
 This is kind of game. So I will explain what's the way. It doesn't mean that we are not participating
 at all. But our participation in this is very different. Another thing that we need to
 know is that any system, any -ism - capitalism, communism, socialism, Trotskyism, Stalinism,
 all of that, there is no absolute truth in that. Those are all tools of the devil.
 That people fight with each other. Some people feel that this is more true, some people feel
 that this is more true, and they are fighting and fighting. And in the end the satan wins and
 rules the world. So we should not feel that something is absolute truth. It's socialism or
 it's communism or something else. That it's absolute truth. No. It's all relative. It's all
 relative. We need to understand what those things are, but we need to know that there is no absolute
 truth in either of these. Democracy, authoritarianism. We support democracy, but we see that it becomes
 authoritarian. We support authoritarian and they use democracy to introduce some anti-christian
 things like LGBT. It can be used by the devil. He is very smart. So no matter what we
 support then we will lose. So this is why I said if you really believe that you are
 something, you are some -ism, you are not really understanding what christian faith is all about.
 So we keep distance from all these things, but we need to understand. We need to understand them.
 So that it's not they use us, but we can use them. And I will get to this in a minute.
 What we can do as christians to be faithful to christ and to be his instruments.
 First of all we need to grow spiritually. We need to improve our spiritual life. This is what makes
 a difference. This is how we can make a difference. And we will be de-attached
 from this seduction. Some political thing is happening and
 right away we think "oh this is true" and we rush into it and we support something.
 And we'll make mistake and we are caught by a devil. We will have this wisdom not so much
 attached to worldly things, to some benefits, social programs, social agendas, policies that they
 discuss. We're not so much attached to this. And also our world view is different
 than theirs. So this is what we gain when we have high spiritual. Then we have spiritual life.
 We're really following Christ. Another thing that we can do is to see, to observe what's happening,
 to understand better what kind of people and what kind of isms there are and what is
 their agenda and stuff. We need to grow in that conscience, but we have a different perspective
 on it than regular people. Also the third is that we need not to think that "okay I will do something,
 I will do something". We just need, in terms of political thing, we just need to trust that
 Christ, that the Lord can use us when He needs, if needed. Maybe even to have some big political
 change happen, like saints. Some saints were used by God and many big things, even empires
 became Christian. But it's not that we need to pursue it so much. It is the Lord, He will
 know how to use it and when and He will do it. If He doesn't, our conscience is clear,
 because we want to gain His kingdom in our hearts and in people around us to be His
 witnesses, not witnesses of some ism. And the last thing which is very important, super important,
 is that as we became chosen by Him, we stand on this way, we step on this path of being
 Orthodox Christians, our life becomes very precious in His eyes. And we cannot just use it for
 something unimportant, something like relative, for some political agenda. Okay, we're rallying,
 then we are put into prison, our time, our freedom is taken, we cannot do any testimony or we even
 lose our life because we're killed by some stone in some rally. Okay, this is not what the Lord,
 and the Lord will not have to protect us because we ourselves chose something else.
 Okay, so we should not waste ourselves, our life, our time, our freedom in order for some kind of
 political agenda. Okay, we can die for our friends if their life is in danger. Yes,
 we should be ready for that. We can die for Christ, for testimony about Him. Yes, we can,
 we should be ready to die for Him, but not for some political agenda. Okay, so this is very
 important and so let us ask our Lord to give us wisdom, to give us knowledge how to act,
 what to do. Okay, and we need to know that witnessing about Him is the most important
 goal in our life and nothing else is so important. May the Lord bless every one of you and give you
 blessing and give you wisdom, I mean.
