 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen, indeed he is risen.
 The Holy Church celebrates Pascha, or resurrection of Christ, or it's called Easter.
 This is why we have so many flowers, red flowers, the priest is wearing red.
 This represents both blood that Christ has shed for us on the cross and the fire that
 is burning and destroying all sin and all error, death, the fire of God.
 And during this time we have very close union with Christ.
 The bond, the wall between heavens and earth is broken and for 40 days until the feast
 of ascension we'll be celebrating Pascha and we'll be greeting each other, not a "hello,
 goodbye".
 We will be saying Christ is risen and the response is indeed his risen, or truly his
 risen.
 So during this time I want to say about divine Eucharist, divine Eucharist which is the fruit
 of resurrection of Christ.
 Very often we go to church and we don't understand why we celebrate, what do we do on Sunday,
 Sunday celebration, divine liturgy.
 We can understand when we pray for, we ask something from God for a new job or for healing
 or we are thankful to him for something.
 When we have a blessing for marriage, we understand that.
 But when it comes to divine service, divine liturgy, we very often don't understand why
 we do it.
 And we even think, well, no need, I just pray myself at home, why should I go to church?
 And I don't understand much of what is said.
 This is a big mistake because only in the church we are united with Christ, with resurrected
 Christ and we are united with him and to see how this is important, we need to understand
 that we have corrupted nature after Adam fell.
 We have this corruption and it's bringing us, pulling us away from God to selfishness,
 to some sins, desires, but Christ is giving us renewed life.
 And Apostle Paul says that you walk in the renewed life already.
 And if there is no resurrection, your faith is in vain, your faith is empty.
 This is why only resurrection gives us this power of resurrection that kills this virus
 of corruption that is in us.
 It's destroying like fire, burning it away and opening to us the kingdom of heaven already
 now.
 It's already open, but not yet fully realized.
 Already but not yet.
 And this can happen only during divine liturgy and divine Eucharist.
 This is where we draw all life and salvation.
 That's our source of enlightenment, of power, of renewal, of light.
 This is the divine liturgy.
 So today I want to say what is happening during divine liturgy and why we don't understand
 it so much.
 Very often we think it's something holy.
 Priest is saying some words, doing something holy.
 The choir is chanting something.
 It's very nice, but I'm just, I'm a sinner.
 I am profane.
 I just stand in the corner.
 I just observe what's happening.
 And this is a great mistake because we need to be actively involved in every step, every
 part of this divine service.
 This is when we really appreciate it and receive this grace that the Lord gives to us.
 So to better get involved in this service, don't be afraid.
 Don't think that you are too profane, too low to be involved.
 You are the child of God and you need to be in this family.
 So some people, they consider becoming more actively involved, like becoming altar boys,
 helping in the service.
 Some consider becoming chanters, that they know the structure better, that they can have
 more appreciation of the prayers.
 But this is not absolutely necessary.
 We just need to learn more what is going on, the structure and the meaning.
 And today I want to make it more simple for you.
 I want to break it up into several key things that are in the liturgy so that no matter
 when you participate, you know more and more, where are we now?
 What is happening right now?
 And the divine service is composed of two big parts.
 The first big part is called the Liturgy of the Word.
 This liturgy is centered on the divine scripture of God's word spoken to people.
 And it's composed of three main things.
 It's prayers that we pray, the whole church prays for all the world.
 And okay, praise, sing, chants, psalms.
 It's the beginning of the service.
 So it has these common prayers together.
 It has the reading of the scriptures.
 It may be Old Testament sometimes, but mainly New Testament, the epistles of holy apostles
 and the gospel.
 The gospel is the most important part.
 And then the third part is the Sermon of the Priest, who is encouraging people to follow
 these divine things in their lives, to understand better so that it touches their heart and
 they can attach it to what's happening with them on a daily basis.
 So this is the first part.
 It's open to everyone.
 It's open not only to faithful, but to catechumens, to everyone who comes, they can all participate
 and hear and get this message from God.
 But the second part that follows is the core part of the divine service, divine liturgy.
 And it's called the Liturgy of the Eucharist or just Eucharist.
 And Eucharist means Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, and it composes the sacrifice that's happening.
 And this sacrifice is we sacrifice ourselves, our hearts, our lives, our faith.
 We bring it like the woman who came and brought this oil to anoint Christ.
 The church is bringing its clean faith and pure life, is bringing to God, to receive,
 to anoint Him and to receive His Himself.
 And Christ has sacrificed Himself on the cross and we receive this sacrifice, this fruit
 of this sacrifice to us is Him Himself, the resurrected Christ, the body and blood of
 Christ.
 And this will happen during the Holy Communion.
 So let's go step by step.
 This whole part, this Eucharist is composed of five main elements.
 The first one is the great entrance.
 And this great entrance is basically bringing us, we are bringing everything to Him.
 And it's represented by bread and wine.
 These are gifts, we say.
 And we bring these gifts, of course, we also bring many other things.
 We can bring also donations and we bring the breads for commemoration of people.
 We bring a lot of things to God.
 And they are represented by bread and wine.
 This is the first part.
 The second part is called anaphora.
 Anaphora is bringing up, it's called oblation in the Western tradition, coming from Latin,
 Oplatio.
 And this is the offering.
 So we bring it and we bring it up, we bring out this anaphora.
 When anaphora begins, we lock the doors.
 The church has to lock, it's already very holy time so that nothing, nobody walks, nobody
 does anything.
 It's a very holy place.
 And during this anaphora, we have another three parts.
 As this anaphora begins, we have three parts in it.
 The commemoration, we remember the great mystical supper, the last supper that happened when
 Christ established Eucharist with his disciples.
 He explained to them everything that's going to happen.
 And he fulfilled the Old Testament by setting, becoming himself the lamb of the Old Testament.
 The Old Testament had the lamb that was sacrificed.
 But he, by doing this last supper, he makes himself the lamb that will be sacrificed.
 So we recall these things and that's when we say, "This is my body that is broken for
 many for the remission of sins.
 And this is my blood of the new covenant that is shed for you and for me for the remission
 of sins."
 We say these words, they were said by Christ, "This called commemoration or anamnesis, anamnesis."
 Then this is the third component that we need to remember.
 The fourth component is we're calling the Holy Spirit to come down.
 It's called epiclesis from Greek.
 It's calling upon, calling the Holy Spirit to come down and sanctify these gifts, make
 them the true body and blood of Jesus Christ.
 So this is the fourth more important element.
 And the fifth element is we receive this body and blood of Jesus Christ.
 So these are the five elements.
 It's that simple.
 Yes, it's that simple.
 Everything else that we hear is either prayers that prepare ourselves for this or we're thankful.
 We're expressing our thanks for this.
 But the main element is these five elements that are taking place.
 So let us have this structure in our mind.
 This is what is happening during Sunday.
 And it will be helpful for us to get more and more involved.
 We know that, okay, now we're praying.
 We are about to do the anamnesis, commemoration, or we're about to do epiclesis.
 What are we doing right now?
 And we will have this feeling that we are with the Lord in this Last Supper, doing one
 common thing altogether.
 Okay, may the Lord help you, give you this joy, and give you His blessing to be part
 of this renewed life and this grace that He gave to us, the salvation of our Lord.
 I mean, Christ is risen, indeed He is risen.
