 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen! We will be celebrating the Pascha resurrection
 of Christ for 40 days. And also yesterday we just celebrated the day of the victory.
 Victory over Hitler and this fascist Nazi Germany which was on May 9th 1945.
 This is a great date and we are thankful to God for this victory.
 We are thankful to all those who died, who sacrificed their lives for us to have peace,
 to have life. Because otherwise it would be either slavery or death in concentration camps etc.
 However we should not relax. It is important to draw the spiritual lessons from what happened,
 what were the reasons for this war and why the Lord allowed these things, this suffering,
 all these deaths to happen. Most of us in modern times we have not experienced war
 and we think that we'll live in peaceful times. Well this can end very quickly and
 myself I've been to some war zone and I've talked with many young people, young guys who were there
 and just about two, three months after that I received messages that all of them were gone
 already, they were killed. And now when we are looking at the pictures of that time we see
 forest, nature and corpses all over, dead people including children, young people, so many.
 And we cannot when we think about it it's difficult to understand how God could allow
 this to happen. And this brings us to a question that maybe God in our understanding is not the
 God as he is. Our perception of him is different, it's romantic, it's false, it's fake,
 it's some virtual reality that is created and we live in this virtual reality. But we don't know
 the true God, how he is, how he operates, what is his principles. And this needs to, this has to
 bring us into very deep spiritual self-examination. We need to discover that we are far away from God
 and that this can happen with us any day. And today I want to talk about these spiritual
 reasons for the war and what does it teach us these days. Well the war,
 well first of all why is this important? Because some people say well it's gone, it's
 past, it's already won, everything is fine, so don't worry about that. Fascism,
 Hitler is dead and it's all over. There is no Nazism in our days, it doesn't have any influence.
 Well the whole phenomenon of Nazi Germany and all this fascism in Italy and Japan and many other
 places is that evil that is in this world, the sickness, the sin that is in this world in
 societies, it got materialized and expressed in that way. And if we have some spiritual life,
 we know that after we conquer some sin, we repent some sin, we change, it's not gone completely.
 After some time it comes back, re-emerges. This old man inside us, this virus is coming back
 and re-emerging, trying to pull us again into the wrong direction. In the same way the viruses that
 are present in this world on the global scale, on the society scale, they don't go away completely
 and they re-emerge. And this is what we are forgetting when we celebrate yes we won,
 everything is great and now it's victory, we forget that it's coming back. All these things and much
 worse than it used to be at that time. Because at that time also all the people in Germany, Italy,
 they've all embraced this ideology. And those people were not like evil people who really
 wanted to murder so many millions of people. And they were not so stupid to just believe everything
 that they were told by Hitler or somebody else. However, they received this ideology and they've
 supported and they've carried out this task. They became this tool of the devil to bring so much
 suffering to the world and to themselves of course also. So we are not immune to such brainwashing
 and it is coming in a different shape. But these instruments of devil are still out there and they
 just take different shapes and forms. What is fascism? Fascism is an extreme right political
 ideology. That national interests are super important and the government can use all means to
 exercise its power and its policy. There is no opposition, there can be no real opposition.
 And the masses, the people support the industry and support the government and everybody
 is together to achieve the goals that there are. And basically there is nothing so bad
 about this. If we think about it, it re-emerged many times in many societies in many places.
 We have this in socialist countries, something similar. We have it now re-emerging with all this
 great reset. And this socialist... Another thing, the left. It used to be more like socialist,
 this Lenin, Bolsheviks. Now the left is more caring about those LGBT rights and all that stuff.
 But this left, it's not that right is bad, it brings fascism. The left can bring also
 fascism and totalitarianism. When this left agenda becomes very without any compromise,
 it has to be like this. Because of human rights, you have to respect LGBT. And if you're not,
 you're an enemy of the state, you're an enemy of society, an enemy of humanity. You're a virus,
 you need to be exterminated. So we can see that left can also bring us to those things and those
 ideas. And for devil, for antichrist, it's actually even more interesting to have people unite and
 become without any compromise, live without any compromise in sin rather than unite for something
 good. Well, maybe it's half good. But in Nazi Germany, there were still some moral values.
 But what we can get in the future is that there will be very different moral values,
 but people will still protect them with force and power. And even the greater goal of the devil
 is to make all people willing to be like that, embracing that thing, so that there would be
 no need for opposition. There would be no need for concentration camps, because everybody will
 be dragged into there. And just have that one totalitarian government and system and regime,
 which we call the kingdom of antichrist. So this eventually will happen at some point. We don't
 know when. But now we are going in that direction. And we can say that Hitlerism and Nazism was just
 one of the rehearsals for antichrist that is coming later. It was just one of the models.
 And there are different types of models that can be used and that can be imposed upon us. And we
 will be thinking that, yes, this is good for people. And we will be supporting this.
 So we can be brainwashed even much more than people in Germany in those 30s and 40s.
 With the low level of education that we're getting and also with all this brainwashing that is coming
 from the internet, that is making us addicted to those social networks. And that we are all time
 are there and they are teaching, educating us some ideas, some views. And we think
 somebody else will think instead of us. We're losing, we're becoming masses. So all of this
 is not gone. There are two risks, two things that can happen, that will happen. One thing is
 people get brainwashed and they are believing in something, in some ideals which are false.
 They are leftist or rightist or socialist or something else. And they are ready to die
 for that. They will be used in all that complicated game. They will be used somehow
 to reach the final goal. And another outcome that is coming is that people can be destroyed
 physically. Like the people who died in World War II and in those concentration camps.
 Just tons of dead people. And we should not think that we are better than them. This will never
 happen to us. This will happen even with some saints that can happen. And even more so if we
 don't establish this close link to true living God. This is the only solution from these two
 things that are inevitably coming. And for us to reach this goal we need to put this main priority
 that we are searching and craving for the Lord every day. We're exerting our all efforts in
 seeking His truth, in being pleasant to Him, our life being pleasant to Him so that He cares.
 He cares about us. He knows that He can teach us something. We're not just stubborn going in our
 own direction. So this is the solution. And we need to understand that we will be sacrificed
 if we don't do this. We will be sacrificed to Mammon. We can see now how some people are
 dragged by Mammon, other people are dragged by some saints, other people are dragged by
 something else. So this is the Pharaoh that is trying to enslave us, this Pharaoh. And we need
 to be strong. And all this evil that is out there, it's not that scary. It's not that
 all powerful that it has all the power. Because some conspiracy people they think that oh now
 everything is so dark and all those people they control everything and they can do anything.
 No, as long as we are with God we are much stronger than them than they are.
 We can chase all that away, destroy all of that, make this darkness disappear. But we need to be
 with God. This is the key to this solution. May the Lord give us His resurrection, power of His
 resurrection, His guidance, His wisdom, His strength and help us overthrow all schemes,
 all plans, all deceptions of the evil that is out there. God bless and Christ is risen, I mean.
