 Dear brothers and sisters, this week the Holy Church celebrates the Saint Thomas, a postal
 who did not believe that Christ has resurrected, but on the 8th day after the first appearance
 of Christ to the disciples upon resurrection, the Lord also appeared to him.
 And this is quite mystical, mysterious event that brings us to think deeper about the providence
 of God and the wisdom that he uses in his plan to save humankind.
 We see that the apostles did not believe themselves, they did not believe the women who received
 the message, reassurance from Angel and from Christ himself.
 They did not believe to the two disciples who came from Emmaus who also saw the resurrected
 Lord.
 They did not believe them.
 And the Lord appeared to them themselves.
 He did not praise their unbelief.
 He scolded their unbelief, but despite their unbelief he appeared to them.
 And something similar happened to Thomas, but with Thomas this was even more exaggerated
 because all the disciples they told him, all of us, not just one, not just women, not just
 couple of people, all of us, we saw resurrected Christ and he proved to us that he is resurrected
 in the body because he ate with us, we gave him food.
 So that was absolute miracle.
 He came even though the doors were locked, but we can assure you that it is him in his
 body with all the wounds.
 And apostle Thomas, he said, "If unless I touch myself, put my fingers into his wounds, then
 I will believe."
 This radical unwillingness to believe is celebrated, commemorated by the church today.
 And this brings us to think about how come the Lord still appeared to him.
 We see the end result, the fruits of this.
 We see the confession of apostle Thomas, he said, "My Lord and my God," he is the first
 among the apostles to call him God, even though this was really out of logic for a Jew who
 believe that God is absolute, is out there in spirit, he called Jesus God.
 So there had to be a great breakthrough in his mind, in his understanding for him to
 say words like this, his confession.
 And later we see that he was maybe most radical and most fearless of all the apostles.
 He went to the furthest countries, to India, to China, most likely, to many, many other
 places, Babylon, maybe today's Pakistan, many, many places, very far away, not like other
 apostles went to nearby countries.
 He went like super far because he had no fear because for him, we can think about his mindset
 that he loved the Lord so much that it was for him absolutely necessary to get this proof,
 the hard empirical proof of Lord's resurrection to be able to express his love to its full.
 Because he was ready, we remember he was ready to die for Christ when they went to Jerusalem.
 And he is probably the most radical of the apostles.
 And he wanted this empirical proof for that, and the Lord gave him this proof.
 So his unbelief is quite different from the unbelief of Judas who also did not believe
 in Christ.
 He wanted another Christ, another type of Messiah, and that's why he just decided to
 make some money, he sold him, he betrayed him and then he died, he committed suicide.
 So the end result, the end fruit of his unbelief is very different, it's destruction.
 And the devil himself entered into his heart, we remember.
 So we see that the Lord can gain something very good from something bad.
 And the devil can also gain something from something else.
 So today I want to say about this providence of the Lord.
 We see this dialectical, it reminds us dialectics, thesis, antithesis, synthesis.
 We can see that this happens not only with Thomas, with the apostles, also many sinners
 they repented and they became with the Lord, following him.
 But the righteous, sort of righteous people who obeyed all the commandments and stuff,
 they did not follow Christ.
 So the Lord also gained from this bad, they were once slaves of Saturn, in sin he converted
 them through repentance and they became his disciples and they've reached the synthesis
 in the Lord and gained salvation.
 And there are many examples like this.
 I recommend everyone read Romans chapter 11, which is dedicated to the issue of Jews rejecting
 Christ and through their fault, through their rejection, through their objection to Christ's
 message and to the gospel, the Gentiles gained this grace and gained salvation.
 And this is very mysterious.
 If you read this chapter, you'll discover that it's just mind blowing.
 And there is a remainder that will be saved, okay, of the Jews, even though they are now
 against God, they will this enmity, hostility to God, of course, it deprives them of God's
 blessing.
 But the Lord is using this in order to bring the conversion of Gentiles.
 So this is really something which is really difficult to understand to us, but this gives
 us the notion of Lord's wisdom, that he can use things like this to come out, to bring
 good results, good outcome.
 But we should not think that any dialectics like that, it's all coming from God.
 We need to judge by the results because this, and also another example of God's wisdom,
 the Lord is allowing Satan to exist.
 He could just go and destroy him.
 He can do that, but he doesn't, he allows him to exist there and to tempt people.
 And through these temptations, through these challenges that are brought by Satan, he is
 making his disciples stronger and stronger.
 So he allows Satan to be out there and to tempt people only because this brings some
 good results.
 So this is also some mind-blowing dialectics of God. He doesn't approve Satan.
 It's not that he is blessing Satan, go and do what you do, no.
 But there is this hostile spirit who is trying to kill people with all his legions and stuff,
 but the Lord allows them to exist and just needs to limit their power sometimes.
 So we can see that through that, the Lord can bring good results.
 But he tells even to the sinners, don't sin again.
 We recall that.
 So we should not think, okay, oh, now I go sin or I don't believe and that'll bring some
 good results.
 No, as long as we are in the Amen, in the truth, we should be preserved in the truth.
 And whatever, there is a need for some antithesis, for us to grow in this synthesis, the Lord
 will allow that to happen in our life.
 So don't worry about this.
 Don't seek for sins to be growing in Christ.
 So having said that, we come now to the destructive dialectics of the devil, because he is like
 monkey trying to play God, okay.
 And he's called the ruler, the king, the prince of this world, okay, because he gains control
 over people through their passions, through their desires, through their sins.
 And he is trying to play God, okay, basically, but he's not God, okay.
 And the results of his dialectics are death, destruction, sin, hell, okay, this is the
 outcomes, the fruits of his dialectics.
 And a good example of that, you can also watch one of the videos that I've recorded a long
 time ago, the roulette of the devil, okay, he is very often changing faces, okay.
 And the one thing he does is, for example, in the 20th century, where when most people
 they got far away from God, we know about the masses, okay, the masses is when people
 were cut from traditions, they were put into those manufacturing production, and they got
 separated from another social distance, okay, that we have now, there was another type of
 distancing at that time, from their traditions, from their families.
 And like that, they became a mass, okay, and these masses, they were brainwashed by
 the devil, and part of this mass went into socialism and communism, part of this mass
 went to capitalism, mass culture, labor, and pop culture, okay, and became two camps, okay,
 and both of these camps, okay, what is common to both of them is that both of them had Mammon
 as their king, okay, one camp, the communist camp, they had this bright future, they need
 to build, it was atheism, no God, only material production and stuff like that, okay, very
 materialistic, even though there were some ideals, okay, but all of that boils down to
 materialistic thing, okay, and well-being, prosperity and stuff.
 Here on the capitalist side, we have also a profit and the growth of production, okay,
 but there is a sort of freedom, okay, there is freedom to religion, to sin also became
 more and more evident, and so no morals, only professional morals, ethics, okay, and later
 this consumerism, okay, this obsession about material goods, prosperity, well-being, and
 all this stuff, okay, and these two camps, okay, and then there is a synthesis, okay,
 which is also inspired by him, by this devil, okay, the synthesis is to get all this sin
 and all this stuff from this capitalism thing, and to get this totalitarian, this regime
 controls of this communist thing, and to combine them together to make something even worse,
 okay, and this is what we're getting now, okay, people are cut away from God on the
 society level, not on individual level, of course, the Christians, people who are part
 of the body of Christ, they should not be afraid, they should know about these things,
 okay, that things are more complicated than we think, and also he is using these conflicts
 all the time, okay, two parties, blue green here in Taiwan, we have other divisions, monarchism
 against democracy, we have all kinds of this division, divide and conquer, this is something
 done by a devil, in all the deep debates, there usually has to be two camps debating
 with one another, okay, so whenever we see some motion, okay, something going on, okay,
 there is some ideology coming on, or there is some kind of trend, we always need to think,
 is this something coming from this divide and conquer, okay, is the devil putting some
 mask and saying those guys are bad, or that thinking is bad, it has some truth to it,
 but it's actually just the flip side, okay, and trying to destroy, to bring down both.
 In almost all war conflicts, in almost everywhere, okay, where there is hostility, where there
 is a big conflict, it's coming from the devil, very, very rare that we have God on one side
 and devil on the other side, okay, to have that, we need to be spiritual warriors and
 not some political warriors or this army warriors, okay, then we can fight with devil himself
 and we need the spiritual weapons, not money, not something else, but we need spiritual
 strength and power of the word of God of life in Christ to be able to withstand all those
 things, so may us be wise and have strength, have decisiveness to follow Christ and to
 be his soldiers, okay, and not to be dragged in any false direction by some deceitful scheme
 of the devil, may God bless you and give you this wisdom and love in your hearts, I mean
 Christ is risen.
