 Dear brothers and sisters, last year I recorded a couple of videos regarding the monastery
 in the Ural region near Yekaterinburg, the monastery of Srednyi Uraisk, because there
 was a lot of noise regarding this monastery's leader Nikolai Romanov.
 He used to be father of Sergei and he was defrauded and then excommunicated from the
 church last year and he was put to prison in December last year and he is now in prison.
 And the monastery just recently was moved out, the whole, all the nuns, it's a couple
 hundred nuns, they were all forced by police to leave the premises, the whole monastery.
 And there were other issues in terms of religious freedom in Russia and in other places.
 So this is why I want to say a few words about what issue there is and how should we look
 at it as Orthodox Christians.
 Because if we don't say anything, then we just agree with what's happening and things
 even worse will happen.
 And the Lord's blessing may even depart from us and from the church if most of the people
 would silently agree with things that are going on.
 Because this is a shame, what has been done and government cannot impose such measures
 on people.
 No matter how dangerous, even if they were terrorists and they were not, they were nuns
 and they were praying there, they had some ideas and you can agree with those ideas,
 you can disagree with those ideas, but you cannot treat people like this, old nuns just
 taken with force and thrown on the street.
 We disapprove things, myself, I disapprove things like this and I think it is good that
 everybody could have an opinion about it because otherwise we are participants of what has
 been done.
 And this raises a question for us.
 Where is this boundary?
 Where is the religious freedom that respects choice of people, religious choice?
 But where is the toleration of some destructive sects and terrorist groups that say that they
 are just religious bodies?
 Because this is what the government says, that is done for national security.
 We also remember that all the persecutions in the Roman Empire and in Soviet Union were
 also done for the purpose of national security.
 And today it is the same, nothing has changed, it is just that the official Orthodox churches
 are not persecuted like this in most countries, except maybe in some Muslim countries or Communist
 countries, which are few.
 So, we need to find this border and of course the government will never tell us everything
 about its logic, why it is persecuting some religious group, because the government basically
 wants to control everything, any government anywhere.
 And religion is a field which government has the least control of.
 The people who are religious, seriously, because they would have some values which are above
 government, above the law.
 And they might have even leaders that can tell them things that are against the law.
 So the government wants to, and we know the modern government wants even to brainwash
 people to be even more controllable.
 And some governments they even want to destroy all religion.
 We've talked about the plan of the devil, that he wants to destroy any kind of religion,
 just leave what can be called Maimonism.
 Maimonism is worshipping Maimon, money, wealth, and everything that's related to that.
 And you can call it any religion, but eventually everybody who is doing it will be one religion.
 And of course it will be not a real religion, it will be some fake surrogate anti-Christ
 religion.
 So we know that there is the goal, this goal is out there.
 And we will not be able to control the government.
 But at least when something is related to the Orthodox world, be it Orthodox country,
 be it former Orthodox monastery, we need to have some opinion about it, if people ask
 us.
 Because we bear responsibility, collective responsibility for everything that is happening
 with the Orthodox Church everywhere in the world.
 So this particular event is a grave violation of human dignity, of human rights, of religious
 freedom.
 And we need to speak about it as a church.
 And we should not be afraid of any persecution or any pressure from the government regarding
 this thing, this aspect.
 We need to not be afraid of anything.
 This is the very important principle.
 If we are being afraid, then there will be bigger and bigger pressure.
 And maybe tomorrow it will be the turn of the Orthodox to be persecuted.
 You never know.
 This is one principle, that we need to have love and respect towards people as the guiding
 principle, if it's violated by the government for some reason, we need to speak about it.
 And so the government could have done something else.
 It was not necessary to use force and to use these kind of methods, treating old people,
 old nuns, like that.
 Another important issue is that we need to know that just by belonging to Orthodox Church,
 it doesn't mean that we are already in the heavens and we are the truth and we are blessed
 by God, etc.
 Because this is not belonging to Orthodox Church, it's only a condition, it's giving
 us the opportunity, the possibility of being united with Christ and receiving and to being
 those people whom he called "my people".
 But if you're Orthodox, it doesn't automatically mean that you are his.
 And we cannot tell him, when we face the Lord, when we meet with him, we cannot just bring
 our baptismal certificate and say "You see, I'm baptized, I'm Orthodox", or bring
 a cross and say "You see, I'm Orthodox".
 No, the Lord will use a little different standard criteria for deciding who is his and his own
 and who is... he said "I don't know who you are, go away".
 So, we recall prophet Jezekiel, who lived in the 6th century BC in Babylon, and he was
 telling about the people of Israel, the Old Testament church.
 He said that "You are the prostitute, you became a prostitute", we've talked about
 it in the last video, and they were the most Orthodox at that time.
 But he said, the prophet said that "You are even worse in your life than the pagans, you're
 much worse, so you will bear much greater judgment".
 So, we should not think that automatically we become holy when we become Orthodox.
 We need to be righteous ourselves, to cling to righteousness, to exert all efforts, what
 we can do to improve our relationship with the Lord, on any level, on individual level,
 on community level, on the whole church level, if we can influence all the churches, if we're
 a bishop or patriarch.
 We need to do whatever we can that the Lord would not say "Okay, this church, they call
 themselves Orthodox, but I don't think so".
 And if we agree to things like what has happened with this monastery, we are like that.
 And now, of course, we need to be clear that we don't approve the methods and the ideas
 of those people.
 There was a guruism, guruism when people just say some person, he's the leader, we only
 follow him, and there were many unhealthy things in the practices in that community.
 But in the Ural region, in that monastery.
 But not approving that doesn't mean that we need to approve when they are punished and
 persecuted.
 There is a principle.
 If somebody is hit hard, we don't laugh, we don't celebrate, we pray for him, we have
 compassion for him as a person, because he's gonna be put to prison, or he will be thrown
 away on the street, he will suffer a lot.
 You say "Oh, God wants him to suffer".
 Well, leave it to God.
 If it's God's will that he is suffering, or it's government's will, it's against the God.
 You don't know exactly.
 And maybe tomorrow the God's will will be that you suffer persecution, or maybe that
 you are killed.
 We never know.
 So we cannot say for sure, because the Lord said "Leave the judgment to me, I will judge
 people".
 We can have ideas about the teaching.
 Teaching is wrong, the teaching is harmful, etc.
 But we should not be happy when somebody is suffering a person.
 So wherever there is no love, there is no church out there, there is no love for people.
 This is a very simple principle, simple rule.
 So we need to pray for those people, we need to pray for the people who persecute them,
 for those persecutors that they can repent and discover that this is a mistake, they
 should not do things like that, and we should pray for ourselves.
 That we have the wisdom, we have love from God, we have humbleness, this is very important.
 And of course there is another big issue, the big issue is when there was an Orthodox
 government from the time of St. Emperor Constantine, there was always this temptation to use this
 might of the government to get rid of the heretics, to put it simple.
 And this is a big question, to which extent this can be done, and how?
 Because if we make full use of this opportunity, then maybe we'll be next, tomorrow we will
 be considered heretics, and we will be persecuted and destroyed.
 So we always hope that the government doesn't interfere too much into these kinds of ideas.
 But if some group is really super harmful, like they are really terrorists of course,
 or if they really make people zombies and put them on drugs and make them completely
 destroyed psychologically, their families, their property, of course those kinds of sects
 should be restricted.
 But there is this border to which extent, and it is always important to find the right
 limit, not to let the government do too much, because later it will use it against you.
 And of course not only because of that, because we don't want people to suffer, we want them
 to repent and to find the truth and to live with the God, and we need to embrace them,
 we need not to chase them away.
 If they happen to be in the church one day, we should not say "your heretics go away".
 No, we need to embrace them to show them our love and care and kindness, and pray for them,
 and hope that they might discover that God is here in the church.
 So let us not be afraid of things like this, because God is with us and he is doing this
 testimony and we just need to be his servants and his humble ministers.
 May Lord give you this wisdom and give you his blessing and joy of the resurrection.
 Christ is risen.
