 Dear brothers and sisters, these days more and more people are concerned about their
 diet to eat healthy food, to have a healthy lifestyle, to be healthy, to live longer,
 and to save the planet, not to use chemicals for producing food even though it's profitable.
 But humans are not composed just of body. We know that we have immortal soul and that
 we are spiritual beings. And this means that we also need spiritual food. Other than earthly
 food, we need to feed our spirit. And this is the topic that I want to talk about because
 very often we are not really concerned about what are we fed with and what is spiritual
 food. There are different types of spiritual food. And we recall that the Lord himself,
 when the disciples came, he was talking with a Samaritan woman. They said, "We brought
 food. Let's eat." But the Lord said that, "I have food that you don't know of." And they
 thought somebody brought him food. But he said that, "My food is to do the works of the
 one who sent me, of God the Father." That was his food. And also we remember that the
 devil was tempting Christ when he was fasting in the desert, the wilderness, for 40 days.
 He got hungry and the devil said, "Look, here are stones. Make them breads because you're
 a son of God. You can do it." And the Lord told him that, "Is it not written that not
 only by bread alone will a man live, but rather he will live by every word that's coming from
 the mouth of God the Father." So, Word of God is spiritual food, is the best food for
 our spirit. And also we remember that in Christ when the disciples were in the boat, they
 were all in the boat, he said, "Be careful of the yeast of Pharisees and Sadducees."
 He also used this parable of food, of yeast, that they can eat and that they can spoil
 their soul. The yeast of the Pharisees is the hypocrisy and the yeast of the Sadducees
 is the liberal thinking, basically, and very materialistic, very down to earth. There is
 nothing spiritual, there is no paradise, no resurrection of the dead. They did not believe
 in many perceptions, many commandments of God. They only recognized the Torah, the five
 books of the Pentateuch, and they were the Sadducees. We now have both of those yeasts
 in the church, unfortunately, both Pharisees and Sadducees, and we can see that there is
 food, spiritual food, that we can eat, embrace, that can harm us. What is this food? By the
 analogy of the regular food, we can say that sometimes we eat something tasty, but later
 we have stomach problems, or stomach ache or something else, same thing. Sometimes we
 watch a movie, it's interesting, it's exciting, it's nice, but later we feel sick, we feel
 anxiety or depression or something else, and we don't know why. And some people, they don't
 know why they get stomach problem. Some people don't think about it. They just have diarrhea
 and they eat same thing every time. They don't think about why is it like that. The same
 thing happens with most of us with spiritual food. We don't think why we have depression
 or something else. Maybe that was a result of the conversation we had with someone or
 the lifestyle that we have. So this is one analogy. Sometimes what we eat is not very
 tasty, but it's healthy. Some salads or something else, some people are not used to healthy
 food and it's not very tasty. Same thing with spiritual food. Maybe we're not used to it
 in the beginning, but it's healthy. And we can nurture a habit of eating healthy food.
 Some people, they eat healthy food more and more. And then their organism is willing to
 eat healthy. So we need also to nurture this habit. What kind of music we listen, what
 kind of movies we watch, what kind of people influence us. And also some food can make
 us rely on that food. Addicted. Like many people have to eat McDonald's all the time.
 Or they drink Coke. Or they have to have a coffee, otherwise they cannot do. Things that
 make people addicted. I have nothing against coffee, but when we are addicted to something,
 then it's not healthy. The same thing with spiritual food. Some people watch action movies
 all the time or something else. They need that stimulus, some kind of excitement. This
 is a bad habit. This is addiction to spiritual food. There are two general types of spiritual
 food. One is things that we embrace into ourselves. That we absorb things that we watch. The books
 that we read. Communication that we have. Maybe in social media or somewhere else. All
 of that is something that we are embracing. That we are absorbing. Another type of food
 is what we do. And that includes our deeds. We do something for the Lord. We do something
 based on our faith. That is healthy food. That makes us more and more healthy. And there
 are things that are not healthy. And also prayer. Prayer is also something that we do.
 And prayer is making us more and more healthy. It is making us more vigilant. Christ says
 you have to be vigilant spiritually not to dream. People say what does it mean? Prayer
 has to be very important to you. Every day we pray a lot. We are supposed to pray a lot.
 That's healthy. That's being vigilant. Talking to God. Like the diet with the food, we work
 on this diet in fasting time. Some people who are sportsmen or maybe models, they have
 to be skinny. They need to watch carefully what they eat. The same thing applies to Christians.
 We need to be always working on what we eat on the spiritual diet that we have. If we
 want to be healthy, if we want to be able to withstand temptations, devil and fight
 with evil stuff. And with the food sometimes there is a diet that is done to cleanse the
 organism. Big clean up. Like drinking water all the time or eating potatoes all the time
 and nothing else. There are different ways of doing it. Especially after a certain age.
 The same is done during fasting. Intensive cleaning of all evil that is accumulated in
 our soul. Then what we can also say that during our time, it is the age of information,
 we have so much stuff, spiritual food that is bombarding us every day. Information radio,
 social media, social networks, this smartphone, TV, everything. It's just a whole day. We
 are in some kind of virtual thing. In the past, 100 years ago, 200 years ago, people
 living maybe in countryside, even in towns, it's basically the same picture they see every
 day. They have some news, but it's not that much. Pretty much it's different from now.
 What is happening now is as though we live in a fridge or in some barn which is stuffed
 with all kinds of foods. And most of those foods are tasty but harmful. It's all kinds
 of hamburgers and all kinds of candies and chocolate and whatnot. And we are just living
 in there. We are just stuck in there. Like in the cartoons, sometimes they open a fridge
 and there is a rat inside. And this rat was eating everything that's in that fridge and
 it's a fat, big rat. This is something that is happening with us these days. We become
 like these rats. We eat just all stuff that we embrace, that we hear, that we listen,
 and we become fat. We are spiritually fat. We cannot do things for the Lord. We become
 powerless. We become sick of all kinds of sicknesses. People who are fat, they easily
 get sick. And this is much more serious because of spiritual sickness. And this is why we
 live in this spiritual desert. Not many people live by faith, bring fruit for the Lord. It's
 not enough to be just nominally Christian. It's nothing. If we are like fat rats, being
 Christian doesn't mean anything to us. So we have to be different. Otherwise, we build
 with one hand and we destroy with another hand. We are trying to pray and then we are
 doing some things, watching some movies. That destroys everything. We should be building
 with two hands. Becoming more and more healthy, true soldiers of Christ, and bringing fruit
 for the Lord. By ministry to Him, to people, sacrificing ourselves, and being vigilant
 in prayer. We should not just sit at home. There is an analogy, children playing computer
 games all day. They don't know, they don't learn anything. They don't want to go to school.
 They don't know how to make food, to clean the house. They don't know anything. Similar
 things happen with us, but spiritual. Spiritually, we don't know how to minister the Lord. That's
 why we are busy with something. We are always busy with this and that. We are trying to
 make ourselves busy. But this is not giving us any spiritual benefit. So let us be wise.
 Let us ask our Lord to give us this heart to be eager to change, to be like sportsman,
 willing to do training every day, willing to sacrifice something, to become stronger,
 to become faster in terms of food, in terms of lifestyle that He has. And we should have
 this spiritual lifestyle. May the Lord help us and give us His blessing and His grace.
 Christ is risen.
