 Dear brothers and sisters, what kind of language should we use when we talk to God, when we
 pray?
 Should we use our own words?
 Should we use prayer books, modern prayers, ancient prayers?
 What kind of language should we use for the Divine Liturgy?
 Because sometimes we hear language that we don't understand, maybe Greek or maybe Old
 English or Slavonic or something else, maybe Hebrew, Latin.
 And to better answer this question, we need to first recall that our God, Jesus Christ,
 He is the Word of God, Divine Word, Word of God the Father.
 So word and language is very important, it is what makes us humans, created by the image
 of God, who is the Word.
 So our ability to speak is very important.
 And speech and language is not just some information.
 So when we say, translate a prayer into different languages, or use different style of languages,
 it is all different.
 Prayer in Greek, same prayer in English, same prayer in Russian, in Chinese, it's a
 different thing.
 It's the same prayer, but it has different aspects to it.
 Because every language has its limits, has its talents, strong points and weak points
 in terms of linguistics, grammar, and the spirit that it can express, depth, poetics
 and many other things.
 And this is why it is important when we think about translating Holy Scripture or translating
 some prayer of the Holy Fathers, we need to pay attention to all these things.
 We should not think, well, I just mechanically translate one thing into another or the same
 information.
 Okay, fine.
 This is what it is.
 It's much more deep than that.
 So having said this, we also need to recall that Christ is a mystery.
 And he said to his disciples that to those outside, those who are outside, everything
 is only in parables.
 So he was saying the true meaning of these parables only to his disciples.
 He uncovered secrets of the kingdom of heaven, mysteries.
 But this is not occultism.
 Kingdom is some secret knowledge for chosen ones, for the very special ones.
 We can say that for us, union with Christ is also only for the chosen ones.
 However, the difference is that it is given to everyone.
 It's directed at everyone.
 And everyone has a potential to become a child of God.
 It's not exclusive.
 It's not exclusive like occultism.
 But with that, very few people really hear what is the word of God and are really willing
 to get into this union with him.
 So having said this, this will help us understanding what kind of language and what kind of prayers
 should we use in our daily prayers at home and in the divine liturgy.
 In our prayer at home, it is important that our heart speaks to God.
 And for that, our direct language, whatever we have in our mind, in our heart, when we
 say that to our Lord is very precious, it's very important for him.
 He's listening to these prayers.
 However, sometimes we feel that we don't know what to say.
 We say a few words, Lord have mercy, thank you, Lord, glory be to God, prayers of repentance,
 please forgive me, O Lord.
 These very simple prayers are super important.
 We should use them many times during the day.
 We should think about God many times during the day and pray to him.
 However, sometimes we want to say more.
 We want to have some discussion with God, to express more things, but we don't have
 the words for that and we don't know how to do that.
 And when we open prayer books with prayers written by holy people, ascetics, holy fathers,
 hundreds of years ago, we can learn from them what does it mean to talk to God.
 What problems we have about ourselves that we need to address to God, because sometimes
 we don't even notice these issues, these problems and we cannot express them and we don't know
 much about God, what kind of things he is willing to listen to and what is not pleasing
 to his ear.
 So all of these things we can learn from these prayers.
 So it is very useful for us, it becomes like the school of spiritual life, the prayer book
 that we have.
 And while we read these prayers we should have our heart participating in every word.
 Not just "Oh, I'm supposed to read these prayers in the morning, ok, now I just read and just
 go."
 This has no meaning.
 Our heart has to participate and to make this prayer our own prayer.
 This is very important and this will make us grow spiritually.
 So both of these are very important.
 And because it is the dialogue between two hearts.
 And the dialogue between two hearts gets into the next level when we go to church.
 Because in the church we are not just individually talking with God.
 We participate in this mystery and we go into this union with Christ who is incarnate in
 the church that has gathered together.
 So this sacrament, this mysterious sacrament is happening and we become part and participants
 of the sacrament.
 And to be participants we need to open our hearts and get into this mystery.
 And this is not just exchange of some information.
 And it is not just a dialogue.
 It is some mystical reality that we enter in.
 And for the church to express this, to help people enter into this reality, we very often
 use chanting.
 Not just saying this, this, some people say just say these things to God.
 And that's enough.
 No, it's not enough just to say to give some information to God.
 God is looking at our hearts.
 And while we chant our heart is opening.
 It's not already our mind and logic and just information.
 Just our heart is opening.
 Sometimes we don't even understand the meaning of the chants that we chant.
 Some people, maybe it's a foreign language or it's so long that you don't really understand
 what the word is that we're chanting right now.
 But still we are able to penetrate into the prayer.
 And of course we need to learn all this meaning of all these chants that we chant.
 This is also very helpful for our participation.
 But this is not absolutely necessary.
 I mean, it's not that without it we cannot enter into the prayer.
 We had one English speaking person who came into our parish when we were just using Chinese
 and church Slavonic, two languages.
 We were not using English at all.
 And he said that he already has liturgical experience.
 He already has this understanding of the meaning of the divine service and the parts of the
 prayers and he's able to enter into the prayer even without understanding of the meaning
 of the particular words that we do right now, that we chant right now.
 So he said don't use English just because of me.
 I want to become part of the sacrament, of the divine service without even knowing the
 meaning of the chants that we use.
 So from this we can learn that it's not just necessary just to follow by the book.
 Okay, we have some book and we listen and now we're here, we read, we read, we understand
 every single word.
 No, it is about our heart being united with Christ in this mystery.
 So in the divine service, if we have some language that we don't understand, English,
 some other language than English, we go into another country, we go into Greece or into
 Russia, into China and we pray in the service that we don't understand, we can still be
 fully participating.
 Well, not fully, but to large extent participating in it, but we need to learn the divine service.
 We need to study the structure, the theology, at least we need to know the verbal meaning
 of every part, okay?
 This verbal meaning will help us go to the next step, will help us go to the next step.
 So it's also very important.
 The language of divine service is not just some language, okay?
 It is the incarnation of the word God, the word into our human language, into the words
 and letters.
 And this incarnation makes these divine texts very important.
 And we need to be very careful while we translate them to other languages or make adaptations
 to them.
 We need to respect that it is the Holy Spirit that is present in these texts.
 So when we translate it, we also try to use the best way not to bring something extra,
 to preserve the style, the meaning, everything, rhetorics, poetics of this original language
 of the Bible, or of the Psalms, the divine liturgy, all those prayers that we say.
 And if this is very difficult for us, we say, "Well, this language, it's really high language.
 I'm not used to this language and I feel attached from this language."
 We need to recall that our Lord, He came and was incarnate, became humans like us.
 He lived with very simple people, sinful people, prostitutes, these tall collectors, and many
 other sinners.
 But He did not become a sinner like them.
 He was with them, He loved them, He communicated with them in the language they understand,
 but He wanted them to go to Heavens.
 He showed them the way that together they can go to.
 So the Lord is also coming to us who are lacking in education, we are lacking in every respect.
 We are sinners, we have passion.
 He is coming to us today the way we are, sinful and lowly.
 But together with Him, He comes and He wants us to go together somewhere else, to the Heavens,
 to the future, that is uncovering to us in the divine service.
 He wants us to be raised.
 Like the teacher is coming to a class which has students who are like crazy, there was
 a movie about this.
 They were all orphans and they were doing crazy things and they don't want to learn,
 they just want to play and they have dirty language.
 He became like one of them.
 But after that, He began raising them to another level, raising their level of their culture.
 This is what Christ is willing to do.
 It's not that He's high up there, and the holy people are high up there, and we won't
 ever get there.
 They all become like us, they are with us.
 But they don't want us to stay where we are, and we go and grow.
 And this is the logic behind us using these prayers of the Holy Fathers and behind the
 divine service using some things that we don't understand right away.
 Many Russian people don't understand the church Slavonic or Greek, they don't understand Koine
 language that was used 2,000 years ago.
 They don't understand right away.
 But slowly they learn and they appreciate how beautiful it is, how well it is for prayer,
 for using it.
 So in the same way we can use also Old English sometimes to make our English prayers more
 beautiful.
 We can even add maybe sometimes Latin and other things too, when we understand what
 it means.
 So we use for example Alleluia, Alleluia comes from Hebrew, Osanna in the highest, Osanna.
 These words are preserved, Amen.
 All these words are preserved even from Hebrew, not from Greek.
 Why?
 Because they are used, they are very nice in expressing prayer.
 In the same way we should not say okay we don't understand it, it's foreign language,
 it's for something else.
 We use every treasure that we have to glorify God.
 May the Lord give us this willingness to learn, willingness to grow and willingness to be
 with Him in the divine service, in this mystery.
 You have the Divine Word incarnate not only in the prayers that we read, but in our hearts
 also.
 May the Lord give you blessing and joy of His resurrection.
 Christ is risen.
