 Dear brothers and sisters, now the Holy Church celebrates ascension of our Lord.
 This event has a tremendous importance, because God became man so that man can ascend into
 heavens and can have full union with God Trinity.
 And this happened when the Lord ascended to heavens in his resurrected human nature.
 Also, so Christmas, the meaning of Christmas is realized now in the ascension.
 Also the meaning of Pascha, resurrection, is also realized today on this feast of ascension,
 because it is by the power of resurrection that the human nature is able to rise to the
 heavens.
 So this was the meaning why resurrection has happened.
 So today we celebrate, it is like apotheosis of the whole ministry of Christ on earth.
 And this feast gives us several important things to think about.
 First of all, how everything happened.
 We remember that upon resurrection the Lord, the angels, said you will meet the Lord in
 Galilee, he will teach you.
 So the women, they went to the apostles, to the disciples, they said that there is something
 very important that the Lord is planning to tell us, to teach us, and this will happen
 later soon.
 And indeed there were important things that the Lord had to tell them.
 He was telling them about the meaning of resurrection during these 40 days.
 Saint Luke is telling us that during 40 days he appeared many times to the disciples.
 He was talking to them, and the final time, when the most disciples gathered, and Saint
 Apostle Paul is telling us about 500 disciples came to that mountain.
 Which mountain?
 The mountain of Elion next to Jerusalem.
 Because after Galilee, when they went to Galilee and they met with the Lord, he tells us go
 back to Jerusalem and expect there what will happen next.
 He was still teaching them what to do on every step.
 Now you go here, now you do this, because they were still unable to do it on their own.
 And this final meeting that happens, it happens right outside of Jerusalem.
 Jerusalem is the Old Testament, now it's the New Testament church that is about to be born.
 So they go outside of Jerusalem near Bethany.
 And on the mountain, most likely it's the mountain of Elion, they see the Lord on the
 mountain, they approach him, he is telling them the final important things that he has
 to tell them.
 And he is arising.
 And once he is arising, he is raising his hands like this, meaning that he is blessing
 them.
 This is a blessing that he gives.
 And what are these three important things that he himself tells them?
 The first thing, he tells them that all the power in heavens and on earth is given to
 me.
 This means that now he is possessing all the power that he was supposed to have.
 He is entering into this being a king, kingship, and this was the expectation that they had
 about Messiah, that eventually Messiah will become the king of universe.
 And they were waiting for this, we remember.
 So this is what is happening.
 The whole life of Christ, the whole ministry, and his resurrection is bringing him until
 this very point of ascension and entering into this power that is given to him.
 And what is this power?
 We know that God has power in heavens, the angels obey him.
 But he now has full power on earth.
 What kind of power?
 The power of the kingdom of heaven that is realized through the disciples who become
 one with him.
 These disciples become extension of him.
 Their hands become his hands.
 He is living but he is making us, his disciples, to have his hands.
 To have his mouth to speak what he wants to speak.
 To have his mind to think, to want, to desire what he desires.
 And this is what is becoming reality right now.
 And he is telling about this reality that he has this power on earth through us.
 This is the responsibility and the mission that he is giving to every one of us, to his
 true disciples.
 And we are going and extending and we have everything necessary to do this.
 So he is telling them about this power.
 The other thing that he tells us that he is giving to his church the power to bind and
 to release.
 This power is the power of forgiving sins.
 The holy church has this power to forgive sins because a sin is the greatest enemy and
 the greatest enslavement that there is.
 And the church has this power to release, to forgive sins, to unite people back to God
 their creator.
 This great power is given now by the Lord to his disciples.
 And the third is the mission that he is giving to us.
 When he departs, he says, "Go and make all nations my disciples, baptizing them in the
 name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Spirit, and teach them to do everything that
 I have taught you."
 So it's two things.
 One thing is to make them believe, have faith in me.
 And another thing is teach them to live according to this faith as I taught you.
 So it's two things, very important.
 It's not just belief, it's important to live as Christ has taught us.
 So these two things are very important.
 And he's telling to the disciples to teach all the nations.
 And even though he himself did not go and teach all the nations, he himself taught only
 Israel, only people of Israel.
 So now he is giving much bigger mission to his disciples.
 And also, the prophets, we remember, they all refused.
 They said, "I cannot do it, I'm not worthy, I have some problem, I have problem with my
 speech or something else," even though God was sending them just to the people of Israel.
 But now God is sending them to the whole universe and they are not saying, "No, sorry, we cannot
 do it."
 They receive and accept this mission.
 So this is the attitude that we should have, every one of us.
 That we dare to go and do what Christ has told us to do.
 So these are the three important points that he is telling us on this final meeting, like
 face to face.
 And he's also telling that, "I'm with you till the end of the ages.
 Don't worry, don't be afraid because you will have a lot of sorrows, a lot of prosecutions.
 Don't be afraid of anything.
 I'm with you till the end of the ages."
 Yes, so this is probably the fourth thing that he tells them.
 And after he rises and blesses them, they are looking into the sky.
 They're looking into the sky, they don't want to go.
 But two angels come down.
 Two angels come down and they tell, "Man of Galilee, why are you standing here?
 Go and do what he said, because he will come in the same way as he went."
 So we see that the angels tell us another thing.
 They tell us that he will come back soon and you need to do things fast.
 He will come back in the same way a cloud will bring him, like on that day the cloud
 took him.
 The cloud means the power of God, presence of God.
 And in the same way, in the clouds, he will come back in the same way.
 And the disciples, they were coming back to the same place on that mountain every year
 for many years, because they were recalling what has happened and also expecting maybe
 it's this time he will come back again.
 They were expecting that this will happen soon.
 But so this is exactly what we do, even though we don't go to Mount Elyon, but this is what
 we do on this day.
 And we celebrate this event for all these 10 days before the Pentecost.
 So we are thinking about this meaning and we are recalling back what has happened on
 that time.
 And it is important to see that he broke this distinction between heaven and earth.
 He broke this gap, he eliminated this gap that there is.
 And this is why he gives us some mysteries that we cannot really understand.
 For example, he is in material body, but he sits on the right hand of the Father, on the
 throne of glory.
 And for us this is mind-blowing.
 How can he be in material body, but he is in this, in heavens, and he is everywhere,
 and he is the ruler of the universe, and he is with us and in us when we take Holy Communion.
 This is just mind-blowing.
 We cannot really understand how it is possible, but this is possible.
 And also this makes every Christian, every true Christian, to be a mystic, because these
 are mystical things.
 And the Lord himself is giving us, is telling us these mystical things, making them happen.
 So we should not be just, okay, the book, I read the book, oh, I understand, I am doing
 something, okay, moral things, it's morality, I'm doing some kind of social ministry and
 that's it.
 No, every Christian, every true Christian has to think about deeper things, about spiritual
 higher things, okay?
 It should not become a fantasy or some kind of delusion.
 It has to be sound and well-grounded in prayer, in the Holy Scripture, mysticism, okay?
 So this is why many saints, Saint Nicholas of Serbia, we can see many saints, the Alexandrian
 tradition, now many people don't understand why they had, no, it's very important that
 they have this, that we have this tradition.
 This mystical anagoke, okay, this going above, okay, to the higher meanings, spiritual meanings.
 This is important.
 Okay, but at the same time we should not just go there and stay there, okay, like those
 men in Galilee just standing and looking in the sky.
 No, we should also remember about this mission that we having thought about these things,
 having understood these spiritual things, we go and do real work that the Lord is telling
 us and he's telling us that it's not that much time left before the second coming.
 The second coming is approaching and you have to do it as fast as you can, okay, as good
 as you can.
 You should focus on this, this is your mission.
 So this has to be combined in our life, both mysticism, spiritual, prayer, going up, raising
 above, okay, ascension, we should be able to ascend above all the worries of this world,
 above the political issues, concerns that people are so concerned about, about our every
 daily routine tasks that we have.
 We need to be able any time to ascend into spiritual reality, to look above from this,
 from heavens upon these things, okay, from the perspective of the Holy Spirit.
 That we should not completely detach ourselves from this world, okay.
 We come back and we carry out our Christian ministry.
 So this is what the world is lacking right now.
 The world is completely immersed in these every day problems, but we should be able
 to be above, okay.
 And let us think about these things, let us break this distinction, okay, just spiritual
 and just fleshly thing.
 This was in the Old Testament and also in the pagan philosophy, the body is a prison
 for the soul, the flesh and the material things is bad, okay, it's just spiritual things that
 are good.
 No, this is heresy, okay.
 For us, the Lord came and he is material and he is in heavens, he ascended into heavens.
 So for us, these categories, they are broken, okay.
 It's not to, okay, I'm material, I'm natural, I'm sinner, but there is something holy and
 good somewhere out there, you know, it has to be in us and with us and we should be carrying
 this and sharing it to everyone.
 And this is what the Lord says, his kingdom is realized through us on earth and we are
 witnesses of this kingdom.
 May the Lord help us, give us this theosis, okay, this is theosis making us partakers
 and communions of his divinity and of his mission that he is giving to us, his church.
 May our hearts be full of joy and eagerness to serve and minister our Lord on daily basis
 and make long-term projects also.
 The fruits of faith that we have to do should be also long-term, not just daily, what I
 do today, we should have long-term goals and projects, spiritual that will bring long-term
 outcome.
 And this will be also very powerful and important fruit for the Lord.
 May the Lord help us and give us his blessing, I mean, merry ascension of our Lord to every
 one of you, I mean.
