 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am recording this video in Toronto in Canada and I want
 to say about the Orthodox faith here in Canada. I was myself ordained priest in Edmonton in
 the Cathedral of the Russian Orthodox Church quite a few years ago and served on the farm
 parishes in Alberta. The tradition of Orthodox testimony, mission, is growing and developing.
 And today we have more than 30 parishes just in Toronto itself. But how did the church
 came to these lands? How did this happen? The earliest arrival of missionaries to North
 America was in 1794. It was a mission by the monks of Valham Monastery in Russia, headed
 by Saint Herman of Alaska. They've arrived in the end of 18th century to Alaska and they
 preach to the local nations, to the people, the Aleutians, both in Alaska and on the islands,
 the Aleutian islands. And from that Orthodox stronghold the faith has spread all across
 North America. And we see accounts of Orthodox witnessing in Quebec already in 1860s, 1870s.
 Tsar Alexander II, he presented the Codex Sinaiticus, a reprinted copy of it, in 1879.
 He presented it to the college in Quebec, Lenoxville, because there was a very good
 cooperation between this college and the Orthodox Church. At the time priests from New York
 were coming and serving in those Orthodox communities who lived there. But the first
 recorded officially documented Divine service liturgy was held in the place called Vostok
 in Alberta in 1897, in June. Now it's also June in the same way in June 1897, more than
 100 years ago, 124 years ago, the first liturgy and it gathered 600 Orthodox people, already
 so many. Because those were farmers, Rusyn by nationality, well basically it's the Russians,
 coming from Western Ukraine, the place called Galicia. And they were farmers, they were
 very well experienced and trained in farming, in crops, and they were developing, they were
 pioneers, they were developing the great vast valleys and forests of Canada, in Alberta,
 Manitoba, Saskatchewan, beginning from the late 19th century. And those people, they
 were very strong in their faith and they've taught their children Orthodox faith. And
 they've done witnessing to others, to other immigrants, who were coming from all over
 the world. And at that time the missionaries were coming, mainly the Alaskan missionaries.
 We know that in the 1860s there were maybe only six priests in the whole North America,
 Canada and US, other than the Alaska. There was a strong Orthodox presence in Alaska already.
 But across the whole North America, maybe only about six priests, later there were more,
 but still not enough to go to all those vast places in the different farms. Myself, when
 I was doing practice in Alberta, there were I think 18 parishes that had to be served
 just by one priest. So the priest had to go to all those different farms and villages
 in a schedule, every Sunday it's a different church. And this takes a lot of missionary
 spirit. It's quite different from traditional way that the town or city or village has one
 priest and one community, it's like a family. But here in Canada, it was quite different.
 And this missionary spirit is the true spirit of Christianity, because this is the spirit
 that the apostles went, they went to many different places. And we need to develop this spirit,
 especially in this great large North American context, where distance is so huge from one
 place to another, population density is low, but people who believe in God are even fewer.
 So there is a great need for a live ministry and testimony about faith. So in those days,
 in the end of 19th century, beginning of the 20th century, the parishes, the Orthodox parishes
 were all united in one jurisdiction, was one family. It was called the Rus Orthodox Greco-Catholic
 Church under the jurisdiction of the Russian church. That was the full name, was one entity
 and embraced united people of all nations, Arabs, Greeks, Russians, Ukrainians, Serbians,
 Bulgarians, Romanians, all of them were all united together. And this is the way it's
 supposed to be. And they were headed by Saint Tikhon. At the time, he was Archbishop of
 New York. Later, he became patriarch of Russia during the time of Bolsheviks, the civil war
 in Soviet Russia. But earlier, in late 1800s and early 1900s, he served here on this American
 Canadian soil. In one of the parishes that I was serving in Alberta, there is still a
 letter that is preserved on the consecration of a little church in that place, like a farm
 parish chapel, that was signed by him. He wrote it as a blessing for this place in 1904,
 and they still preserve it. Nothing has changed. And the communion, the descendants of those
 people who were establishing this church more than 100 years ago are still there, and they
 are still Orthodox, and they still do ministry and testimony about Christ and their faith.
 So let us pray for a mission in Canada that God may send more ministers, more priests
 to this area. And in the following video, I will say about the present situation with
 the Orthodox mission and ministry here in Canada. May God bless every one of you. I
