 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Pentecost!
 The Holy Church is celebrating the Pentecost, the coming down of the Holy Spirit upon the
 apostles, which happened 50 days after the resurrection of Christ.
 This is the final outcome, the final result of the whole life of Christ, because he resurrected
 and for 40 days he came to the apostles, then he ascended into the heavens in glory, but
 all of that was in order that the apostles can receive this glory and the power that
 he has, and all the teaching through the coming down of the Holy Spirit after 10 days after
 the ascension.
 So on this Feast of Pentecost, because it was also the Old Testament Pentecost, the
 Holy Spirit came down and established the new Pentecost, the new covenant between man
 and God, because the old Pentecost was also the celebration of the establishment of the
 law, that on Mount Sinai God gave Moses and all people of Israel the commandments and
 they became the Israel, the Old Testament Church.
 But now the fullness of time has come and the true New Testament Church, New Israel
 is established by the pouring down of the Holy Spirit upon the apostles.
 This brought three outcomes.
 First of all, the apostles became one, they had the union of mind, union of heart and
 all of them shared the same understanding of the truth that Christ gave them.
 They had the union of will, they all were willing to proclaim the gospel to serve Christ,
 they were united.
 The second outcome that there was is that they were above all national and linguistic
 barriers.
 They spoke the gospel and people coming from different nations all of them could understand.
 So this was also overcoming of these national boundaries that were created after Babylon,
 the Old Babylon.
 This division between nations was overcome through these different languages that they
 spoke.
 And the third outcome is that they gained this metaphysical existence, metaphysical
 aspect of their union by them being united to the head of the Church, Christ himself.
 This metaphysical reality became real, it became manifest that all of them are not already
 just people, individuals, but they are one body that we cannot see, but we know that
 it's one body of Christ.
 So these three things, they received the gifts of the Holy Spirit.
 This all was possible because of these gifts of the Holy Spirit.
 And these gifts were many, these gifts were manifest both in supernatural abilities that
 they gained and also in this union of mind and the great courage that they had to preach
 the gospel.
 They went out right after that, they went out to this house that they were sitting in
 all this time praying.
 They went out and they preached and they were not afraid of Pharisees, of Jews, of any persecutions,
 they just went and just did the testimony of the gospel.
 So we see these gifts because right now there are two things that we need to think about.
 But in modern times we don't see so many supernatural gifts given to Christians, and some people
 wonder if the Holy Gifts are over and we don't have this communion with the Holy Spirit.
 Some people, they are going into some sects and cults and try to, this charismatic movement,
 try to force the Holy Spirit to come down, which doesn't work.
 The Holy Spirit comes when He wants to come, and not by being extracted from heavens.
 We cannot force Him to come down.
 So these sects, all of that bring people to destruction, to becoming spiritually empty
 and wounded and even possessed by demons.
 We can see that the main aspect is not supernatural abilities that apostles gain, the main aspect
 was their opinion and their love towards each other, that was so important for witnessing,
 and this is what the church now requires, to be united on the basis of Christ, not on
 the basis of something else, but on the basis of Christ Himself.
 Not because we are from the same country, or we have the same church jurisdiction, or
 we speak the same language, or anything else, but because of being united with Christ and
 loving Christ.
 This is what we lack now very often, and that's why we have internal problems between different
 church jurisdictions and between priests, all these divisions that we have in the church,
 they come from the lack of the Holy Spirit.
 So we need to think about this.
 We should not just think that such a nice thing, Pentecost, let's celebrate, we need
 to think what it means for us today.
 One thing is this, and another important aspect that we need to think about is that uniting
 people, making people peaceful, eliminating wars, does not necessarily come from Pentecost,
 from the Holy Spirit.
 Another substitute for Pentecost is Babylon, Babylon is when people want to build some
 common project which is not based on the Gospel, which doesn't have Christ in it as a foundation.
 And there are many local and global projects like this which unite people.
 For example, we have the globalization that's going on right now.
 Some countries, they find that it's more profitable to have cooperation, production is done in
 China, resources come from Russia, technology comes from the US.
 Well, there are many globalization schemes that combine different aspects of different
 nations, and everybody likes it because it's bringing higher standards of living, it's
 bringing more welfare, and it brings peace, people stop going to war because they see
 that they will harm themselves if they fight with somebody.
 So it's uniting people, but this union has nothing to do with Christ, and eventually
 the Antichrist will unite everybody.
 And the Babylon, the New Babylon, is the anti-Pentecost that will also have all these three aspects,
 same ideology that's uniting people, it will have this elimination of different national
 boundaries, even now we have so many nations all mixed together, all have no problem living
 with each other without Christ, just because it's convenient, it's a good partnership.
 So this is also the New Babylon, and another aspect is the metaphysical, and we saw this
 metaphysical aspect in socialism, which also was like one of these models of building union
 without Christ, and there was a very strong ideology, and there was even a quasi-religion
 because there was worshiping of Lenin and the communist party, was this metaphysical
 aspect to it, that was implied and proclaimed, it has its own spirit, we can say that.
 So this is anti-Pentecost, and nowadays the new model will be some combination of mammon
 and socialism, but it will lack this ideological aspect, so most likely they are about to come
 up with some kind of ideology that will be the new basis for this new global, new tide
 of globalization that will be coming after the pandemic, so this will be the new world
 order.
 So when we see that people go to peaceful life and cooperation and living together,
 well, it's not that it's bad by itself, it's good that there is no war, but we need to
 know that this is very different from the Pentecost that comes with the union of apostles,
 of disciples, through the Holy Spirit, when they love Christ, all of them.
 And there is enmity of the new Babylon towards the true Pentecost, so this is why there is
 a tendency, even though people are united on economic grounds, to divide on the religious
 grounds.
 That's why we have newer, more and more splits and sects and schisms and all of that.
 So the devil is working in that way, he is uniting people on the basis of new Babylon,
 and he is splitting people apart on who would be united on the basis of truth and Pentecost.
 This is the reality that we live in, and we need to see what is happening, not to confuse
 one thing with another, and we ask our Lord to send us the Holy Spirit so that we can
 be united, we Christians, united in the body of Christ together and doing weakness if it's
 boring.
 May the joy of the Pentecost be with you, Merry Pentecost.
 God bless.
