 Dear brothers and sisters, yesterday we celebrated the memory of all the saints of the church
 who were the fruits of the Pentecost, of the coming down of the Holy Spirit.
 And today we enter into the great fasting of the apostles, the St. Peter's land.
 It will be about two weeks this year, and we will be willing, we will be thinking how
 to get on the footsteps of the apostles and of those saints, so that we can do our ministry
 to our Lord Jesus Christ better day by day.
 Today I am in Guam, this is a mission.
 Next video I will say more about Guam, about the mission here in Guam.
 Today I want to say about what is to become a saint in terms of what do we avoid by choosing
 salvation and Jesus Christ.
 Because some people say, well, I don't know when I will die and it's far away, so why
 should I worry now about my salvation?
 Well, the problem is that salvation is now.
 From what?
 This is what I want to talk about.
 We are saved from devil, from destruction.
 And this destruction is more specific than we think.
 It's very concrete, it's not an abstract thing.
 And the whole world is on the path of this self-destruction.
 And also with this great reset that is happening now, many people are thinking what will the
 next world will look like?
 We will have a new anti-autopian world.
 What is it going to be like?
 Is it going to have great elite that will control everything and will have like cyberpunk
 or people who have no property, nothing, and they will be just resources.
 There are different theories about what the future will look like.
 We'll talk about it from social, political, economical point of view.
 I want to say from spiritual and from psychological point of view today.
 Because devil wants people to be destroyed, but when he doesn't succeed, when he cannot
 make us just rush like those pigs rushing from the persipi into the ocean and dying,
 he cannot make us destroy ourselves right away immediately.
 He is at least trying to make us psychologically unstable, harm ourselves.
 And all of this, we can call it corruption, mental, psychological, spiritual.
 We can call it the retardedness.
 Somebody retarded, not just mentally retarded, but in many ways retarded.
 It's also called degeneration.
 Somebody is a pervert.
 His personality is destroyed.
 His mind is perverted.
 He is cracked.
 Some people are telling us that these computers that we use, these social networks and everything
 else, they hack, it's a hacked mind.
 Our mind is being hacked.
 What kind of retardedness?
 We need to be humble enough to say, "Well, I am myself retarded.
 I am myself perverted, corrupted."
 If we have the courage and the humbleness to say that, to acknowledge that, we can try
 to find a path out of this.
 And we will see that this retardedness, this perversion, this degeneration is now in everybody.
 Everybody has it to a different degree, in different way, but we all have.
 And this is the result of devil dragging us in that direction.
 Usually, we think that a person, he grows, he is developing, he is learning new things,
 he is becoming more smart, more experienced, he is progressing, he has a progress.
 But in reality, we can see that compared to young children, who are more, very often more
 honest, more sincere, more, less selfish.
 They are pure hearts, they are not corrupted, not stingy, but as they grow, as we grow,
 we become more and more evil.
 We become easier to get angry.
 We become more concerned about money, more stingy.
 We become egoists and we also get mentally retarded.
 Many even professors, if they have this relaxed life and they don't care about their spirituality,
 they become stupid.
 Many people like that, they have doctorate degrees, but they're stupid.
 There is nothing you can talk about with these people.
 Nothing serious.
 Only drinking or something else, girls, why?
 Because people get retarded, it's a degenerate corruption that's going on.
 And the world that they want to have, this world, well, we also have this process of
 corruption going on in the church, we need to acknowledge that.
 And other confessions and sects, they are even more retarded, more corrupted than the
 true church of Christ.
 But we have that process also going on.
 So this new world, as they see it, basically the elite and the people who are guiding the
 whole world now, influencing, making big decisions, most of them are occultists, are mystics.
 And they are very often instruments of devil.
 So the projects they make for the world develop, the ideals that they have for our future are
 inspired by devil very often.
 I don't say a hundred percent, but very often from what we see, from what we see from this,
 what happens in the world and what's promoted, what's developing, what we see in the movies,
 in the news, in the internet, everywhere, the big conspirator is devil himself.
 But people, they sort of comply to his ideas and to his direction.
 So what they want to have, basically they want to have a three tier system.
 The devil wants.
 Elite has its own form of corruption, degradation, then regular people like you and I, most people,
 normal people who have still family values, and it's another way of degradation they have.
 And people who have more serious, who are below, like marginal people who are pushed
 into poverty or into something else, those people have their own form of degradation.
 And today I want to say what kind of degradation it is so that we can see it in our daily life,
 in ourselves, in people around us.
 And we can tell them what exactly is Christ is going to save you from.
 So now the elite, well, all of these, all of these three segments, they have some psychological
 problem.
 Degradation has spiritual aspect and psychological aspect.
 So this elite that we have, they believe that they are enlightened.
 The devil, he is very tricky.
 So he is making them think that they are enlightened, but this is fake enlightenment.
 They think that they are smarter than everybody else.
 Everybody else is just biomass, is just animals, pigs.
 This is how they see the rest of the people.
 But they have some super smart things and ideas.
 This is, of course, a deceit from the devil.
 That's why they like all these mystical cults, these three masons and kabbalists and others,
 they have some secret knowledge and we are chosen, we will have all the power.
 And they do have a lot of power without God.
 And these people, they think that they know everything and they are smart.
 How do we know that this is fake, that this is actually a degradation?
 Because this comes together with sexual perversion.
 Most of these people, they have really serious, it's either, we were doing with a child, with
 children, pedophilia, or it's some other sexual perversion, sodomy and to animals and what
 not.
 I don't want to talk about it.
 This is really perverted things.
 And this is made, of course, in the status of super high class thing and stuff like that.
 But we can tell from this, that this is exactly against God's will.
 This is exactly what Sodom and Hamorah were destroyed for.
 So this is marking that these elite, so-called, that they are perverted and this is serious
 degradation and they receive revelations, but they come from devil and they don't come
 from God or from some good source.
 So this is one thing, the elite has its own form of degradation.
 Several people who don't have all these resources and monies and stuff like that.
 What's the problem with us?
 We have all kinds of social and psychological abnormality.
 Maybe we're not crazy, but we are nervous, easy to get angry, many people are in depression,
 in some lowliness, lack of mood, apathy.
 Many people have desires developing towards something, towards watching TV, towards going
 on social media, always have to look there or drinking, smoking, also sexual things come
 up.
 And we can see that these things reliance on something slowly, day after day, are making
 us worse and worse, if we don't live without Christ.
 We don't notice it because it's going on very slowly, day by day by day, we are slipping
 further into slavery, the slavery of our passions, we want to have a more comfortable life, we
 become more lazy, we become more willing to get some excitement, some fun, some entertainment,
 and many other things.
 If we don't have God in our life, if we don't pray, we also lose.
 Why this time 95% of people don't pray at all?
 If we look back 200-300 years ago, almost everybody was religious.
 Maybe they are wrongly religious, but people knew that they need to pray, they need to
 communicate with the heavens, they felt this, but now people don't feel it.
 They drink, eat, they don't need any spiritual component to their lives.
 What does it mean?
 It means that the whole humanity is degrading, this degradation is going on.
 Very large scale, so this is what we are dealing with.
 Also another mark that's coming with it, believing in astrology and numerology and all kinds
 of superstitions, all these things are coming together.
 When we see this in ourselves, in other people, that means that we are on this path of degradation.
 We have perverted religious feelings and ideas.
 This is serious, this is corruption.
 We're becoming more and more abnormal, crazy, and the lowest level, which will get bigger
 and bigger, and eventually the majority of people will be pushed into that low level.
 It's complete craziness, people are super crazy, or they have completely lack of any
 moral things.
 They live with different people every day, no morality, become very stupid, cannot think.
 We can see even now from the music, from the dances of the young people, how they dance,
 how they think, how they make decisions, it becomes not like animals, like bees.
 Everybody is running somewhere, people are running somewhere.
 Everybody is jumping, you become jumping.
 Lack of any intellect, of course it can have different manifestations and different ways
 of expressing it, but basically people call it cyberpunk.
 People will get into cyberpunk, they will live in this digital reality, cyber reality,
 they will have all kinds of computer games and that, but it will be really like a garbage
 world, and they will be against something, so they will be punks, they will be hippies.
 But in reality it will be not cyberpunk, I would call it cybertrash.
 People won't be against people, most people will be just that, it's not because people
 are trash, people are not trash, they are precious, everyone.
 But this environment, this lifestyle, this upbringing that they will have will try to
 make them trash.
 The goal will be to make them trash.
 So this cybertrash world, there will be elite and more and more cybertrash, and of course
 maybe some people in the middle, but eventually they will be falling down to this cybertrash
 thing.
 So this is the idea of devil for the future world, maybe after 30-50 years.
 This is the picture.
 And now what we can do, we need to be humble enough to acknowledge ourselves that I am
 going on the path to cybertrash.
 And I don't want this.
 How?
 How can I avoid it?
 Only with Christ.
 I can become, I can walk in a different direction, and I can help people around me also to go
 in a different direction.
 What direction?
 The direction of the saints.
 Direction of the apostles.
 Even following Christ, receiving life from him, and healing my wounds, and becoming more
 and more virtuous.
 Losing fat.
 Not just fat, real fat, spiritual fat.
 Becoming more champion of Christ.
 The apostle Paul is telling us, run towards this goal so that you can become champions
 and receive the crowns from the Lord.
 This should become the goal of our life and we should help others also to come to their
 senses and to see what's going on.
 Where are we going?
 It's not just, the world is being pushed in that direction.
 Especially now with this great reset.
 And we need to be aware of what's happening and prevent this development.
 Because it's only through us that the world, Christ can change this world.
 And he can break apart these plans and change the world for the better.
 May his kingdom come.
 May us avoid these traps.
 So, some people think sins, the church telling me about sins, that I cannot do this, cannot
 do that, it's making my life difficult.
 No, the sin is what?
 Sin is a trap that the devil is preparing for us.
 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.
 We pray that the Lord will deliver us from these traps.
 Because once we get into some trap, sin, we are going level down on that corruption degradation
 thing, okay, process.
 We become worse, we become more corrupted.
 This is what's going on, okay.
 So the church is hoping that we go in another way, okay.
 We don't go down, we all drown.
 We receive rescue and salvation from our Lord.
 May the Lord help us, give us strength, eagerness to walk into that direction no matter how
 difficult, how tough it may be.
 We see the goal and we have the love towards Christ and we really try to break apart our
 old self and become in Christ, with Christ, to his glory, follow this path of the saints.
 May the Lord help every one of you and give you a rich blessing, Amen.
