 Dear brothers and sisters, today the Holy Church is celebrating the memory of the Holy
 Apostle's son Peter and Paul. And we remember that the Lord called Peter "you are the rock".
 And upon this rock I will build my church which will never be overcome by the gates
 of Hades. Behind me is Pacific Ocean and a small island which is actually a rock that
 will not be overthrown by these waves, maybe for centuries. This is a good illustration
 of what the Lord is telling us. The Lord is telling that a man can build a house on a
 rock and the waves will not, nor tempest, storm, will not overthrow this house because
 it's built on a rock, like the one behind me. But another man built the house on sand,
 on the beach also behind me, you can see. And that one fell down, trampled, and his
 trampling was great. Our life as Christians can indeed be set on a rock. This rock is
 the confession of Saint Peter, that Jesus is the Savior, the Christ, Messiah, the Son
 of God. This confession means not just that we recognize, acknowledge this, but that he
 is in the center of our life and we draw our hope for salvation on a daily basis from Jesus
 Christ and we serve him with every word, every deed, every moment of our life. This is where
 we put our energy to, all our time we dedicate into the ministry of Christ. This only is
 the solid rock. It is not enough just to say yes, to put on cross and to say I believe
 Christ and I just live as I wish to live. Unfortunately, this is going back into darkness,
 this is like building the house on the sand which will fall apart and will be destroyed
 and washed away. We don't want to be washed away, we don't want our life to be in vain,
 to have no outcome, no result. This is why we need to think deeply, what does it mean
 for us? The confession of Saint Peter and the preaching of Saint Paul. The Lord told
 Peter that you will turn back and strengthen your brothers, because others they got weak
 in faith and Peter had this responsibility to strengthen them, to tell them we need to
 keep going, we need to preach the word of Christ, his resurrection, no matter what.
 That was the rock, the function of the rock. And also the Lord told him that you will guide
 pasture my flock and he indeed became the pastor and he led the flock of Christ. So
 this was the role of Peter. He was not himself the rock, but he gave everyone else access
 to the rock which is Christ himself. He became the bridge, he became the one who brought
 people to this rock and made them stay firm on this rock. And Apostle Paul had a different
 calling. Apostle Paul had the calling of having the great humbleness and through this humbleness
 to gain grace of the Lord that gave him both the wisdom and the courage to go to the ends
 of the world. The wisdom to teach the piety, to teach the faith, the faith as it applies
 to every aspect of our life. This is why now even in the seminary we study theology,
 we learn from epistles of Saint Peter, Saint Paul, many epistles. So the teaching of the
 Church greatly was able to be formed because of the teaching of Saint Paul who received
 this grace. And he also went to all different countries bringing the message of Christ,
 doing this testimony, powerful testimony of the Word of God. And so many people believed
 and became martyrs like Saint Thecla who observed every word that she heard from Apostle Paul.
 And then she became the first woman martyr. She was also a great apostle following Paul.
 So we can see that both of them they had special calling, special personal calling from Christ.
 And this is important for every one of us that we don't just think that well I believe
 in Christ because it's good, it's helping me, it hopefully will provide good outcome
 to my life, in future I will go to heavens, I have peace of mind, I have God's blessing
 to my family and this is good. No, we have personal mission and task coming from Christ
 which we have to understand and accomplish on daily basis. We have to establish this
 interpersonal relationship with Christ. That's the only way for us to be disciples, to be
 disciples of Christ, to be following in the footsteps of the apostles. On this day, most
 likely in the year 67, they sacrificed their lives in order that we can live. They gave
 us this opportunity to have full life. They became like this rock and the rock brings
 water. In the Old Testament we remember when Moses hit the rock the water came out and
 this water signifies grace and everyone who believes in Christ from his bosom these waters
 will be gushing forth, will be coming out like the spring and making an ocean like you
 see behind me. And every one of us when we become Christians we become fish in this ocean
 which can draw this life from this water and we should not think that we just enjoy like
 fish. No, we also become ministers. Every one of us has this function to be the rock
 of faith, to be preacher of the grace of the Lord, to bring this word to others. This is
 our task. Most people in this world choose darkness. They don't want to swim in this
 ocean, they go on the beach. They go on the beach and as fish they dry out and die. They
 choose sin, they choose mammon, they choose something that is bringing them pleasure on
 everyday basis and they don't care about Christ. For them something is far away even if they
 believe in Christ. So devil he cannot destroy the church but he can break out big chunks
 from this rock. And the biggest chunk he ever was able to broke out was the Catholicism.
 Was a part of the holy church that was deceived by devil because they had the wrong understanding
 of the words of Christ to Peter, that he will be the rock. They thought it's the man, flesh.
 And also those who follow behind him, the bishops of Rome, those people, their flesh
 and bones and this place building of Vatican, that was some sort of portal to the heavens.
 And the pope was head of the holy church and vicar of Christ without any mistake which
 was complete off the track. It was a great mistake and great delusion. And these people
 they were broke out, they broke off. They went and they were washed away by the ocean.
 So let us be firm not to be broken apart. If even such a great chunk can be struck out,
 every one of us can fall away. Let us be firm, let us ask the holy apostles to pray for us
 so that we can follow in their footsteps and that we can maintain on this rock and draw
 this true life that is the grace of Lord. And it is like this water giving us fullness,
 giving us wisdom, giving us life and direction in our daily life and ministry to Christ.
 Please stay strong and ask for the apostles to pray for us and try to follow their example
 in your life. Amen. God bless.
