 Dear brothers and sisters, today is the second video about Guam, about the mission here.
 Now I am in the center of Guam and heading towards some villages to continue distributing
 the brochures and meeting with people, making new friends.
 I want to say a few more words about Guam itself and about our mission here.
 Guam itself is the biggest of the Mariana Islands, and Mariana Islands are called Mariana
 because of Mary, Saint Mary.
 So we ask for with the Atakas Saint Mary's prayers and help to our mission, because people
 who live here, the Marianians, basically are people of Saint Mary.
 So this is interesting, this course has to do with history.
 And the history is that Magellan came here 500 years ago, exactly 500 years ago, in 1521.
 But the Catholic mission began later, it was already in late 1600s.
 And there was also Orthodox mission in this region, which I was surprised to find out.
 It's documented that in 1817 and 1828 there were ships coming to Guam and to other islands,
 and they even settled in the north part of the island where the US air base is now, and
 they had an observatory there, there was a settlement, there were some scientists working.
 Some people also say that there was a church established in Anatakhan, that's an island
 up north, Volcanic Island, which had eruption in 2003 to 2007, it was erupting, nobody lives
 there anymore.
 But at that time there was Chamorro population, and the Russians came there and had a settlement
 and built a church, which I'm still trying to find some documentation on that, now it's
 just some stories that the locals say.
 But it's documented that they came here in Guam, at least in those two missions that
 I've mentioned.
 And this was inspiring for us because it is always good to continue the work of other
 missionaries, not to be proud that we are the first and we are something, we are nothing.
 This should be a spirit of missionary that he himself just happened to be in some place
 because of the Lord's glory, and this is not his own achievement or some special talent,
 he's nowhere special, he's continuing the work of others, who are saints most likely.
 And I want to do more research on that, if I have some new finds I will share it with
 you.
 I'm also planning to go to those northern islands to see what it is, I'm not sure which
 islands I'll be able to visit, but this is also part of the plan for this time.
 Guam itself is Chamorro culture, Chamorro population, but actually the Chamorro people
 are now less than one-fourth of the population.
 It's not many, well maybe one-fourth to one-third, somewhere there.
 And it's even less than Filipinos who live here, in Guam, and other nationalities, Korean,
 Japanese, Chinese, many other white, Caucasians, so we have Russians here, so it's quite
 surprising that the population here, the Aboriginal population is less.
 Even though we see Chamorros everywhere, the south is more Chamorro, majority Chamorro
 here, and the mentality is quite different, the south, the center, and the north, well,
 this is something I will not go deep into right now.
 The mission here is quite different from, say, Papua New Guinea or East Timor, because
 people are not surrounding you right away, you're a foreigner, taking brochures from
 you.
 They have a distance, social distance, this Covid thing, and people are not so open, so
 they're more open here in the south.
 And I've discovered that they are more open in the sleeping neighborhoods, in those neighborhoods
 if you drive around, that's the mission strategy, tactics here, that by going into those neighborhoods,
 people are more confident there, they are more open, they are more curious who is this,
 who is driving in their neighborhood.
 People are few, and they don't rush anywhere, they have plenty of time, sometimes you also
 see people working, like construction, who also have a recess, some break.
 So it's easier to talk to them or at least to give them a brochure, to say hello to people
 more responsive.
 So this is the mission tactics that we can use here in Guam and also in other countries
 like US, like those developed capitalist countries, I think it's a good way of doing missions.
 And another tactic which works is once you have a few friends, local friends, ask them
 to tell to their friends that there is orthodoxy, there is a missionary or priest who is now
 visiting Guam, it's an event, it's something that people don't experience every day.
 So they will tell this to others, there is like a news spreading around, and other people
 are willing to know more.
 And this more traditional way of doing mission can be complemented by technology that we
 have.
 So I made a video, and this video is an introduction, who I am, what is Orthodox faith, like in
 just very briefly, and invitation to learn more, to meet, to talk, to subscribe to the
 channels, to come to our Zoom prayers.
 So this way is easier for those who tell to their friends, they also send a link, just
 SMS, Whatsapp, and people see and then they decide if they want to meet me or they don't.
 Some people call me, we meet and we talk, we become friends.
 So this is a nice way of doing mission.
 It's quite effective here.
 Well, what else?
 What else that I've noticed?
 I've noticed that here most people know each other.
 It's not that big, the island, they know who are you, who are your relatives, if we have
 common relatives, what you've done, what your grandfather has done.
 It's still quite traditional and quite interconnected, which is also helpful for the mission, can
 be helpful unless you do something bad and everybody knows about it.
 So it's a little bit different mission mentality than say in big countries, where I call it
 railway station mentality.
 It's like a railway station where you've got so much people passing by and you just give
 to them something or you do something.
 It's like a railway station, like a big crowd of people and it's always changing.
 But here it's a more family setting that people whom I have an opportunity to talk to today,
 I will meet them again.
 It's quite close.
 So it's quite a different approach that you need to use when you know this.
 And also we have a Russian guy I met, he's been here for less than three years and like
 a lot of people know him everywhere in the island.
 He has friends like everywhere and he's been here only for three years.
 Well, he's white, Russian, people can tell who's Russian, who is which country and he's
 quite famous.
 So if there would be a missionary priest here, like everybody would know him, would become
 friends with him or not friends, but at least they would know who he is and what he's going
 to bring.
 So this is some particular aspects of the mission here.
 You need to know, of course, the relationships between the Chamorros in the south, Chamorros
 in the west, Chamorros in the US, mainland people, soldiers, they don't really have good
 relationship with the soldiers who are stationed here.
 All these nuances you need to know and you need to be above it, of course.
 You just give Christ, you give gospel, you try to inspire people.
 A lot of people here, well it's a Catholic tradition here, Catholicism is considered
 majority or like 95%, but in fact it's not.
 Maybe 10-15% go to the church and there are many who are upset about Catholic Church for
 some reason who either went to some sect or who are searching for something else or who
 are not religious anymore, they don't care, so quite many.
 And that's why so many sects and cults and all kinds of stuff is here.
 So these are people who would become Orthodox and already we have quite a few who are interested
 in Orthodoxy and I think there will be many.
 So you need to feel the pain of these people.
 This pain comes from colonial times and colonial treatment that they have and from the war
 memories, there were so many people killed here in Guam and Saipan, the Battle of Saipan.
 Because when the Japanese were here, this was the last frontier they've protected.
 Behind was Japan, so when Americans came, attacked, they had big battles here, a lot
 of people died on this soil and many more Chamorros also, not just soldiers but just
 regular people and almost everything was destroyed on the island, on the islands.
 So they have these memories.
 I visited the museum here yesterday and you need to feel this, you need to feel the land,
 you need to love this place, love the culture, Chamorro kitchen, yesterday I went to Chamorro
 place.
 A lot of Chamorro culture was destroyed because of colonial influence, policies and it is
 good to help them to restore this history, this culture, the language and all of this
 can be done, all of this can be done.
 May Lord help us, please pray for the mission here on these islands so that more people
 can come to the church and become Orthodox and be united with Jesus Christ.
 May Lord help you and bless all of you.
