 Dear brothers and sisters, today we are on the mission in the Northern Marianas islands
 and this is the island of Rota or Luta, the southernmost island of this group. The group
 altogether has 14 islands of which 3 are populated and another 11 have almost no population.
 Those are volcanoes and have goats. At most maybe 40-50 people live on the rest of the
 islands. So one of those populated islands is this island of Rota which is the least
 populated. It's about only 3000 people who live here and it's further away from civilization
 than any other of these 3 islands. So it's preserved the culture, the Chamorro culture
 the most, the language. It's been less Americanized. And hopefully we can establish the Orthodox
 mission here in this place. And today I want to talk about the reflection that I have while
 being here in this CNMI, this Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands. And I will
 talk more about the island of Rota itself in my next video. Well, there was a mission
 here about 200 years ago. The Orthodox missionaries came, there was this opportunity, they came
 on the ships together with the explorers that were going through all the Pacific Ocean.
 And they were sailing to Hawaii, to Marianas, to Aleutian Islands, to Taiwan, to many other
 places. And here on Marianas we have records that there were scientists here, even they
 talk about settlement that was here. Some families lived here on the island of Tinian,
 Saipan. We even have some people say about church and priest serving here, doing liturgy,
 divine services. Well, we'll do more research on it to have some more documented records.
 But all of that is history. That mission that came here, we don't see anything remaining
 from that history, unfortunately. It was not for a long period of time and the locals did
 not receive the message at that time. So the Lord is giving us the opportunity to do the
 mission again. With the technology now we can sit on the plane, come here, and do mission.
 And that's what we were doing. But my visit here is a little bit late, feels like a little
 bit delayed, because from the 90s there were very many Orthodox here, coming from Russia,
 from Greece, from Ukraine, from Serbia. They were doing business in Saipan, in Guam, buying
 real estate, having tourism and all kinds of services here. And there were talks of
 establishing the church, building a chapel. But unfortunately, those talks did not materialize.
 At that time it was easy to ask for missionaries to come, no visa for anyone coming from Russia.
 So there was a great, excellent time for mission. However, this opportunity was not used. So
 now we also have no Orthodox mission established here, remaining functioning here. That would
 be great. There would be Orthodox witnessing testimony going on right now, if that would
 be done. But unfortunately, for 20 years we have this window of opportunity, of 20 years,
 it was not difficult to begin the mission here. However, it was not done. And now this
 window closed. My visit here during these pandemic times, it's difficult to ask anyone
 else to come over, it's difficult to do mission with so few people Orthodox here. Now most
 of those who lived here, they left already, they went elsewhere. So in many respect, we've
 missed that opportunity. Well, we still try, we still, we need to still do what we can
 because the Lord wants the mission to develop, to expand, to have the Orthodox presence everywhere,
 on these islands, on all the islands of the Pacific and other oceans. However, what my
 feeling is, is not just the problem of the Marianas and the mission here. The problem
 is that all of us have some opportunities, some windows of mission opportunities that
 are open to us right now. But we don't think about it. We don't value that. We're waiting
 for some providence of God to fix things. And we ourselves, we just wait and okay. So
 for us, the Marianas islands may be next door. Maybe it's our neighbor. Maybe it's our, it's
 another town which has nothing Orthodox. Maybe this is another platform in the internet,
 YouTube, WeChat, WhatsApp, some internet platform. The world is becoming cyber trash. It's going
 to be just a cyber desert. Children are taught to live in those virtual reality things, in
 those games, in those portals. And there is nothing Orthodox there. And we are able to
 do mission anytime in many different places. To testimony, to witness our love for Christ,
 our faith, to bring the message, to outreach to others. We should not be lazy. Our problem
 is that we are lazy and we are not using those windows of opportunity as is evident here.
 Mainly in Saipan. I saw that in Saipan. And here on Rota, here on Rota is also now a little
 bit too late. Okay. So please pray for the mission here. Please do mission on your place.
 Just take this as a challenge that the Lord is giving to you. The Marianas islands next
 door with your relatives, with your friends, with yourself. We need of course to bring
 the message not with passion, not with some fanatism. Not like a nail fit. We need to
 have good grounding in faith so that we know what we're talking about. We need to have
 experience the faith should go through our hearts so that it is not some just knowledge
 that we share. That we share what we leave. That we share our love for Christ. This is
 Apostle Paul. His message. He loved Christ and he shared this love with others. He want
 others to be in love with Christ. That was his goal, his mission. This is what we should
 do. Just as a message, just as a symbolic commemoration and maybe invitation for the
 locals to know more about the Orthodox Church, we are now planning to establish three Orthodox
 crosses, commemorative crosses on the Marianas islands. One on the volcano for Alion de Pajaros.
 That's the northernmost point. And another two bigger ones on the islands of Anatahan
 and Bagan where there are still some people going there. And we've talked to the mayor,
 to the governor. They don't have any objections. So we are planning to do this. This will be
 at least some step, some little mark that we will leave to commemorate those missionaries
 who've labored here in the past and as a sign of hope for the future of the Orthodox mission
 in the Marianas and in the whole Pacific Oceania region. So yes, thank you very much for your
 prayers, for your support. Please do mission, get ready for the mission and try to do it
 as much as you can in your diocese. I mean, in the place that you're responsible for.
 May Lord bless you and give you wisdom and strength I mean.
