 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am on the island of Roda and I want to introduce this island to you, its nature, its people.
 Well, of course we are not tourists. Yes, when we come for the mission the goal is not just to look, to make photos, to study nature or history.
 The goal is to bring the Word of God. But when I come to a new place I try to have some feeling about this place, to know more about the nature, about people of this place.
 Because the task of the missionary is not just to bring the message, no matter whom you bring it to, just say things.
 The goal is to have a dialogue. A missionary should be in a dialogue like Christ himself with a Samarian woman. He spoke and he talked about the mountain that is there with the temple that they have.
 And from there they've talked about religious things. We remember Apostle Paul, when he came to Athens he spoke with them, he told them that he went to different places to see their temples and to see the monuments, the statues, to understand this culture.
 And he had a high esteem for this culture. He said that he found one monument for the unknown god. And this unknown god I will preach to you.
 So you are smart enough to have a monument to the unknown god. You found him already, you don't know anything about him and I will tell you these things.
 So we can always see, and of course he used this philosophical language to explain, and he told them about the culture that they have in the context that he will introduce Messiah and the resurrection of Christ and salvation.
 So in the same way we need to understand what this place is like. And also in future when I go back to Taiwan it will be easier for me to pray for these people, for this land, if I have some basic understanding of what it is.
 So usually I spend some time to go to see, to learn about this place. And today I just want to share with you what I found here. My next video will be more about missionary practices, techniques, some experiences that I have.
 But today this video is about the island of Rota in the context of Mariana Islands. And this island is very unique. It is called the Jewel of the Marianas.
 Because most of the islands, especially, well, there are four big islands which have people, population. And among these four islands only Rota did not suffer all the bombing and the fire, all the destruction that was done during the war.
 The Marines did not overtake it by force through fighting. There was almost very little fighting here. Because the main strongholds for the Japanese were on Saipan, Tinian and Guam. That's where all the battles took place.
 So because of that, the nature of Guam, of Rota is very original. Some people call it the Jurassic Park. We can see trees here, I don't know, maybe five, maybe seven meters in diameter. Very huge trees, very ancient, more than a thousand years old.
 The place I am now at is called the Bird's Sanctuary. We can hear beautiful birds singing and flying around. They have very special doves, colorful doves, greenish and other types of birds.
 There are deer. I saw deer just two days ago up on the plateau. The coastal reef is also very beautiful.
 So this is the nature. Butterflies. All of that is endemic and I am sure there will be some plants and animals which are unique to this island.
 One of the reasons why this didn't become the stronghold for the Japanese is because the landscape of the island is not flat. It's not like Tinian.
 For the planes, for the tanks and for other fortifications, it's not really very convenient. Even for transportation, if you want to climb these mountains behind me, it's not that easy.
 So the place was not developed like that. It's a volcanic island as other islands. But this one here has a particular shape.
 The geology here is plateaus. It's like tables. There are in some places three levels, some places it's four levels. Behind me they sort of go together so it's a higher cliff.
 But in other places you just get on the next level and it's like flat. It doesn't feel like a mountain.
 Only the first level, which is by the shore, has people and villages. All other levels, if you get on there, it's abandoned. You can feel that there used to be some farming here. The roads are still there.
 But now it's just abandoned. Nobody wants it. They're giving it actually for free. You can work the land, you can produce something, but nobody wants it.
 People became lazy and it's not that profitable so it's just standing there, becoming more and more like a natural park.
 And those plateaus, the nature there looks like savanna sometimes when it's dry. Not like now, but when it's dry season it's more like savanna and people don't believe that it's Pacific Ocean.
 It has some deer jumping in, you know, like in those movies when people do hunting or photo shooting. So it's quite interesting.
 That's about the nature, about the island itself. The rocks are black rock. It's quite interesting. Or ash, also volcanic ash, ground-ish ash you can find.
 Some rock sculptures, they are like hanging in the air because when the volcano erupted, that's what it was. It's like a lot of metals in it.
 In the mountains there is sulfur. Japanese they've mined this sulfur. It was big mining going on. And some sugarcane, some farming also. Now everything is gone.
 There are no factories, no production, no farming. There is just a little bit of cattle just going in the jungle, eating something in the jungle, some pigs in the jungle.
 So other than the nature, well actually also I would share my feeling. When I saw Rota from Guam, you can see it. You can see it in the mist and it goes out. It's not flat, it goes out.
 And when you see it in the mist and the Pacific Ocean, it feels like in those movies about voyagers like Magellan and in those times that they were approaching this place and it was not touched by anything.
 It's just a mysterious island right there. It's like a miracle in the middle of the ocean.
 So this is my first impression about Rota when I saw it from Guam. And it's indeed a place someone should come. It is furthest away from civilization.
 You need to fly to Guam first, then you fly to Saipan and from Saipan the longest flight is to Rota. So you have to go all this way to get here.
 And as you see, now there is no tourists. I'm in a very tourist area. This bird sanctuary is very popular, but there is nobody here. Yesterday there was one lady, she was drying local Chamorro lady.
 She had the meat cut into pieces and she was drying it right on this cement railings. Just like that. Just came here and just put it all up and was drying it.
 So really no people, nothing is going on. And to understand better the situation now, we can go all the way back to the times of Spanish Magellan.
 Well, actually the Spanish, they've managed this place not from the times of Magellan, but later. End of 17th century.
 And after that, it's 300 years. 300 years under Spanish. So they brought here Catholicism. They brought here Spanish language.
 The Chamorro language is very similar to the Spanish. It's broken Spanish. Unlike other islands in Pacific, which not so far away, but the most influence is here. Spanish influence.
 And this came as a next level to the pagan culture, which was here and which still is.
 So this Catholic influence did not replace what used to be here.
 And now most of Chamorros, yes, they do all they have candles, they have icons, they have crosses, but they also believe in all kinds of spirits.
 They have such beautiful land, such beautiful mountains, volcanoes, but they don't go anywhere. They never saw many places.
 I'm here with one Russian explorers, naturalist Vlad, and he goes and makes photos of different places, volcanoes.
 He says that the locals never went there. They are interested because it's their land, especially the younger ones. They would love to go.
 But because of these superstitions, they never go anywhere. They believe there are spirits in the caves, there are spirits on the cliffs, there are spirits in the water, and you don't disturb those spirits.
 So they just stay home, they just get together, drink beer, eat sausages, fry, this not healthy food, become real big, have all kinds of health problems.
 And the overall lifestyle becomes very slow and lazy and it's like psychologically closed on itself.
 So when preaching the Word of God here, we also want to show them their own land.
 We have the idea of making an album, making photos of different beautiful places, which they never went there.
 And there are no photos existing, only maybe from far away from a helicopter or something.
 And making such an album with crosses, installing crosses in some places, as a commemoration of the Orthodox missionaries which came here once.
 And as a sign of our glory to God for granting people such beautiful nature, such beautiful islands.
 And this would be a long-term missionary project so that people can have some trust that Orthodox, they bring something good that is not some sect.
 They would maybe overcome some of these fears that they have, get out of this box, psychological, mental, religious box that they're in.
 And this would be a good contribution to this culture, to these people here of Chamorro, and maybe even work as a long-term mission strategy.
 Because right now Chamorros are very much focused, they are clan-oriented, family-oriented.
 It's our family, we have all grandfathers, all grandparents, they all believe, they're all Catholic, they all believe in the spirits.
 And we don't go anywhere, we don't depart anywhere from this system, this group.
 We don't promote ourselves, we promote Christ and salvation.
 And for people who are seeking the Kingdom of Heaven, seeking the truth, they will find the truth in the Orthodox Church.
 And this is our goal, the main task of our mission.
 Well, going back to the history, after the Spanish, from 1899 I believe, North Marianas, they were given out to the Germans.
 It was a big German colony, empire in the Oceania, including Papua New Guinea and other places, and the north part, the New Guinea part.
 And 15 years it was under the Germans. But later, to avoid German influence in this region, because people knew about the aggressive nature of German state, regime,
 all these islands were given out to Japan. It was enforced by League of Nations, and they were given to Japan for 30 years.
 They would be under Japan for 30 years. And the Japanese developed these islands.
 Even though they've used all kinds of labor, the local Chamorros, the Koreans, Filipinos, to develop this, to build the roads, the farming, develop the land, farming, mining, building towns, building infrastructure.
 A lot of things were done by the Japanese, and this is really noteworthy.
 Because later, after World War II, from 1944, so it's almost 80 years now, these islands were under the US, and they were almost abandoned.
 So all these towns, all that infrastructure, everything just sits there.
 Just from that time, just slowly getting destroyed by the sun, by water.
 All the farms became just natural park, savanna, and very little population, just 3000 people on Rota, Guam has more, Saipan.
 But the lifestyle became unhealthy both in Saipan, it's casino culture, people came, wasted big money just to play, to gamble.
 You have prostitution, all kinds of stuff going on around it.
 Now it's all abandoned also.
 Here on Rota, the older generation, they know how to do things.
 How to hunt, how to make trails in the jungle, they are willing to do things.
 But they are over 70 years old.
 The younger generation, they are lazy, they don't want wealth.
 I shouldn't say things like that, but the overall way of life is very slow, very enjoyment oriented.
 Just sit all day, rely on subsidies, drink beer, do a little bit of entertainment, and that's it.
 Which is sad, younger children just play those games.
 Because the nature and what surrounds you here is heavens, is the paradise.
 This is where Adam was when he was created.
 You can feel this in this birth chanting, in this beautiful nature surrounding you.
 But the way people live becomes like hell.
 It's closed in little space, don't go out anywhere, just consume, just do some games.
 It's becoming very closed, clan oriented, people don't meet with others.
 But people are friendly, I shouldn't say only negative things.
 People are very friendly, whenever you pass on the road, any other car, everybody says hello, waving hands.
 It is hospitable, people are willing to treat you something, beer.
 They are nice people, they are very nice people who live here.
 But the lack of union with the true church, for me the reason is evident.
 This lack of union with the true church that deprives them of this fountain of living water.
 Holy Spirit, the grace that can enliven you, give you willingness to live, to explore, to labor.
 This is what is lacking here and this is the goal of our mission here.
 The next video will be about mission, about some techniques, some experience, some tips that I can give regarding mission.
 That works here and that could work somewhere else.
 Please pray for this land, for the people who live here, so that the gospel may shine here in the hearts of these people.
 And they will be on the path to salvation, I mean.
 God bless.
