 Dear brothers and sisters, it's been quite a few days already that I was doing mission here on Rota, this island.
 And I want to share with you what kind of experience, what kind of challenges and methods I have discovered or tried here on this island.
 And I think this could be useful for you in no matter place you are no need to go to faraway islands to preach the gospel and to do the mission.
 And this is important for every Christian. I discovered that for us to be witnesses of Christ, this really makes us feel that we belong to this mission.
 That we are following Christ and following the apostles.
 So, here on this island of Rota, people are mainly provincial people. They have very close groups, clans of their friends. They get together, they celebrate something.
 Every day you see people celebrating something or people on the beach. It is quite difficult to get into this closed society.
 So, of course, the best thing would be if there is someone from this company who could introduce you, who can tell others who you are and make this encounter more natural.
 However, when you don't have such a luxury, for example, myself, I don't have anyone here local who would do that, who would help me meet others.
 So, there are ways to overcome this problem. Basically, it is difficult to approach somebody who is in a company, say it's somebody on a picnic or people in the shop where it's crowded, a lot of people.
 It is very unnatural that you begin telling them something, giving them brochures. So, we need to catch people, well, catch as apostles.
 We are called to become fishers of men. We need to approach people when they are alone or in a small company, maybe two or three people.
 And better in the places where they don't expect you to be.
 So, for example, in the rural setting, they wouldn't see a foreigner there, almost never.
 And when they see a foreigner, they have curiosity about who you are, why are you here, where are you from.
 And when they talk to you, they will have this memory for many years, maybe.
 So, this is the opportunity for us to do mission.
 When we do mission, we should not worry too much that maybe we persuaded somebody, we did not persuade somebody.
 No, we just need to get out our body, to get ourselves to there, to the place where people can see you, where people can meet you.
 And the Lord will take it from there.
 Very often, I meet with some people that I'm supposed to meet at the very moment when they are there and I'm there.
 For example, you think that everything is under your control, what time you wake up, what time you go out, and it's your project.
 No, actually, no.
 You just do whatever you can to get yourself out, to get yourself involved in that mission, in the way you do it.
 And you will see that the Lord will make you meet the right people at the right moment. At 4.26 pm, you will meet somebody whom you are supposed to meet at 4.26 pm.
 Even though you're just driving, passing by, or just walking there, or you just happen to pump gas in the gas station, or do something else, you will meet the right person at the right moment.
 This happens very often, because it's not us who do the mission, it's the Lord who does the mission through us.
 So we should not think, "Oh, I am somewhere, I have achieved something today or yesterday."
 No, you did not achieve anything. You were just there because the Lord put you there.
 And whatever happened is because the Lord allowed that to happen.
 But at the same time, you need to do as much as you can.
 So, what people are easy to approach?
 People who do some work, construction, or cutting the grass.
 You think they are busy. No, never think, "Oh, this person is busy. Oh, this person is not educated, he's some peasant, he doesn't care about it."
 Basically, we should not think too much.
 If people are receptive, they look at you, they wave at you, you can come over and give them.
 You need to break this barrier, this psychological barrier. Talk to them.
 So, if you're introvert, most people are introverts, you need to break this introvert thing.
 You need to just sacrifice yourself for others.
 Just be there for him, for her. Spend as much time as needed.
 If people want to talk to you, don't think, "Oh, now I have to go, I have some meeting."
 No, you're now on the mission. You have nothing else that's more important.
 So, basically, just be there, just talk to that person.
 Maybe this is the person that the Lord made you go find.
 This person only. During the whole one month of mission, maybe that's the only person that the Lord is willing that you talk to.
 So, this is what we need to forget about our own things.
 At the same time, we should not overstress ourselves.
 So, for example, I discovered that roughly half of the time, if the whole day is for the mission, let's say today,
 about half of the time I try to put into the mission work, and half of the time is something else.
 Just make it more natural. Otherwise, you'll be broken psychologically.
 If you do it non-stop, every day, morning till night, you will hate it soon.
 So, maybe go sightseeing, record a video, read something, read a book.
 Do something, switch. Don't just do one thing all the time.
 Even the mission methods. Try like this, try like that.
 So, make it an adventure. Don't just make it a routine production plant.
 You will need to have a little bit of change to approach this.
 But your main goal should still be a mission.
 If you have something else, for example, something else is really getting more interesting for you.
 For example, exploring something.
 If that becomes the major thing that attracts you, say, on this island, then you will be failing.
 The blessing of the Lord will be departing from you. This is what I discovered.
 You can have something extra, but this extra has to be just addition, not the main thing.
 Otherwise, the Lord will depart from you.
 I'm sharing this experience for all people, including lay people.
 Because as a lay person, you can do a lot of things.
 It's not only a priest that can do missions.
 Lay person, I would advise lay people to, for example, during the season, summer, say,
 two or three weeks dedicated to intensive mission, everyday mission.
 Or every week, say one day a week, this is mission, Friday.
 Every Friday I do mission.
 Or say two weeks a weekend, every second weekend, this is mission weekend.
 I just go and do.
 No matter where, I go to another town, I go to another neighborhood.
 This will bring you into this conscience, Christian understanding of what to do, how to do mission.
 This will give you very important experience and organize you.
 And it's good to also receive the Holy Communion on regular basis, every Sunday or even every day.
 Maybe during mission you can even do it every day, if you have a blessing.
 Well, at least every Sunday I would suggest.
 That will be really helpful.
 And what else?
 In terms of mission, we need to have some basic strategy.
 So for example, I see someone, I wave to him.
 And this is also already not bad.
 Maybe that's all you can do.
 And you need to also judge, learn how to judge, should I approach this person, should I not approach.
 It takes some experience, some gut feeling.
 And you also need something if you're not a priest.
 If you're a lay person, some can wear a cassock.
 If you don't have a cassock, you cannot wear one.
 You can have some T-shirt, a missionary T-shirt or a cap or something.
 Or some kind of sign that you are a missionary.
 People will see this guy, he's wearing some kind of uniform or from some club or from some organization.
 They would know that you're about to tell them something, some message.
 That you're carrying some message with you.
 So this we would need if we're on the mission.
 When we're on the mission, it's like a derby.
 You're in this mission mode.
 You need to be ready to talk to people, to introduce something.
 You would need some form of material.
 You would need some brochures with some phones, addresses, something.
 Some basic introduction.
 You would need maybe icons as a little gift, a little present, an icon.
 It's good if it's two of you, two people helping each other psychologically, supporting, seeing each other's mistakes.
 This is why the Lord sent two apostles, two in pairs.
 Two or more would be nice.
 Otherwise, one is also possible, but it's just more difficult.
 It is good to have the joy of life.
 People feel if you are depressed, if you yourself need help, how can you share and say, "I share salvation, I share enlightenment, I share freedom."
 But if you are yourself, you are depressed or broken or lonely or something else, it's better just to stay home.
 This is why the Holy Communion is important.
 If you really receive the Holy Communion in the right way, you feel Christ.
 You feel that He is with you.
 You feel that you're doing what you're supposed to do.
 You have that energy, that drive, that feeling that you're doing the Lord's work and that gives you joy.
 It should not be just a game, just pretend.
 You cannot have anything fake.
 When we do missions, it has to be authentic, you talking about your own experience, your own faith, sharing it with others.
 When we have the opportunity to talk with somebody, we need some basic phrases.
 First thing I say here, for example, I say, "I'm priest from Russia."
 It's already two messages.
 "I'm priest," that means it's about church, and "from Russia," meaning that I am foreigner, that I am in a new country, in another country.
 So, these two messages, because if you have nothing else, the person is gone, at least he or she would remember that you are gay.
 You can say, "I'm missionary from Bangladesh," from any country.
 And that's already a message.
 Then I usually add "Orthodox."
 I say just "Orthodox."
 If people already got something, they would catch also Orthodox.
 What is Orthodox?
 Who is Orthodox?
 What is it about?
 That's another thing.
 And sometimes that's all you can say.
 And, okay, the person says, "Okay, thank you, I will think," he's gone, and you're gone.
 If not, then the next thing I say is, "It's my first time on Rota."
 So, I'm sharing my experience, who am I, it's my first time here.
 So, usually people would be glad and say, "Oh, welcome, how is Rota, how do you like it here?"
 And then there you go, there you go, you get some dialogue.
 And it may be a longer one or a short one, you don't know.
 So, we need some kind of strategy, some kind of phrases that we have ready.
 We need to remove any topic that is not related to faith, not coming out from us.
 If the person is talking about something, then we respect that and we listen more and we talk about it.
 The thing that is interesting to him, to her.
 But if we are ourselves telling that, "Oh, vaccination, what do you think about vaccination? Oh, politics, Putin, something else, America, China."
 No, we don't talk about these things.
 This is not related to faith in any way.
 We don't want people to have an impression, "Oh, this guy is whatever, he loves, I don't know, something."
 No, we need for him to have an impression.
 He was a nice person and he is on a mission, he is just spreading the word of God.
 That's the impression we want the person to have.
 And after maybe sometime, few months, few years, he would recall, "What am I doing? Why am I wasting my time?"
 Somebody is walking around and spreading the good news, talking about Jesus, but I'm just living in my sin, in my sinful life.
 Maybe I'm doing something wrong.
 The person might have that discovery at some point after he had that memory of meeting you at some point.
 And maybe he will recall that there was Orthodox person and the Orthodox person told him something.
 But maybe that's because the Orthodox are the true Christians.
 Okay, so basically you can think, "If I'm a martyr in the second century AD, would I talk about these things?
 Would I talk about vaccines or something else?"
 No, I would tell people about my love for Christ, my faith, how to pray, what is kingdom of heaven.
 That's what I would be talking about.
 If the martyrs in second century Africa would not talk about these things, don't talk about it.
 Don't bring it up.
 Usually, other people, we need to think about their mentality.
 Usually people, they don't have too many friends.
 They have a lot of Facebook friends, but those are fake friends.
 They have relatives only they communicate with.
 Most people, they lack communication.
 They feel lonely.
 They feel depressed by all kinds of problems that they are facing in their life.
 For them to meet with somebody, to talk with somebody, it's an event.
 It's something that's breaking through into the darkness of their life.
 Usually people live without Christ, without God.
 So, they are separated from others.
 Why people spend so much time in Facebook?
 Because they want communication.
 They want to share something with others.
 They want to hear some feedback from others.
 They want this.
 But they are getting something fake.
 They are getting something fake and that's why they are not satisfied.
 They don't have consolation and they spend hours in Facebook looking through other posts and posting themselves.
 This is psychological addiction that is based on the real need that people have.
 But with you, they would have a real communication, a real interaction with a real person who is honestly sharing something that he has lived through, he has experienced.
 So, this is important to understand.
 Especially in a rural place, people don't have much going on.
 They love news, something new, somebody else.
 So, this is basically what I want to share today.
 If you feel psychologically tired, don't go too long because you might be broken.
 Just switch, maybe have rest one day, a couple of days and then keep going.
 May the Lord help us, give us guidance, wisdom, courage, health, mental, psychological health to help others.
 Otherwise, we need ourselves help.
 And we may continue the work of Christ no matter what.
 We keep going, we are continuing the mission of Christ.
 May the Lord help you and give you his help and courage and grace.
 Amen.
 God bless.
