 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to share with you some of my experiences in the
 mission this year on Mariana Islands.
 We remember when the Lord sent his disciples in the Gospel of Mark.
 We hear that the Lord went and preached the word of the Lord and the Lord worked together
 with them and the special powers of the Lord and signs accompanied the word that they preach
 and verified this word, or like proof, like a stamp that what they do is coming from the
 Lord.
 It's true.
 So, it's now 2,000 years have passed from those days, but we are still in this mission
 of spreading the word of Christ to the ends of the world.
 And here in Mariana Islands, I also have some experiences that I believe they are coming
 from the Lord.
 I will share three instances with you.
 There were many more things that happened, but I choose these three instances because
 they have direct relationship with how the development of the mission progressed and
 how we had success in the mission this time.
 The first event happened here on Guam when I came here in the beginning and I went to
 many different places and I've distributed the brochures and spoke with many people.
 But there was no real success.
 People don't really need anything, they are busy with their own things.
 And at some point you feel maybe you came for nothing.
 Maybe it's just a waste of time, waste of money.
 Sometimes those thoughts are coming and the Lord is giving you inspiration and proof that
 what you are doing is right.
 And one of such signs happened on one day, they told me that there is one person who
 might be Orthodox, she is Russian, might be Orthodox, and she was not there.
 And I left a message in the Indian shop downstairs.
 And I left a message, my phone number, I'm an Orthodox priest, if anything give me a
 call and I go.
 After one hour, one person is calling me and he is telling that we are the whole family,
 we want to meet with you because we are Orthodox and we want to be stronger in our faith.
 And this family stayed here for 3 years already and they had a lot of difficulties, temptations
 because no church and they were on the edge of maybe losing their faith because they were
 pulled from sects, from Jehovah's Witnesses to join that sect and they were in that uncertainty,
 how come there is no church?
 But they were seeking for God, they were seeking for true faith that is alive.
 And when they heard about me coming here, they were very surprised and very excited.
 And now they are the strongest believers, I think, on this island, on Guam, who developed
 the mission further.
 They've invited all their friends, local friends, Russian friends, we've met with these people,
 they know ways to communicate through electronic media, I've recorded a video which they posted
 in many places attracting other people and they've invited me to stay in their house
 and tomorrow we will baptize their son.
 And all this happened just because I thought why not leave a little note in that shop.
 If I would not do that, they would not find me, I would not find them, I would not meet
 so many people here on Guam and it might be a very low productivity, not much results
 of the mission.
 But because of that little movement that I've done, which was not necessary, but I decided
 to leave that.
 Now we have a very successful mission going on.
 Another event which I also think that comes from the Lord happened on Saipan.
 Saipan is separate from Guam, there is not that much interaction.
 So people here, they seldom go there, most of them never went there.
 And same with people who live there, it's not like Taiwan, people go back and forth
 from south to north.
 Here it's two worlds, lifestyle is different, many things are different.
 So when I came there it was also from zero, you just go outside, you don't know anyone
 and you just try to make people interested.
 On one day I was very tired of the heat, I came back home, had a little rest and then
 I could not get up, I was so tired, I was just lying on the bed.
 And I was thinking maybe just enough for today, maybe today is enough, I'll just rest, do
 something else in hotel, it's almost getting dark in less than an hour.
 But there was some inspiration that came, I felt some power telling me just stand up
 and go, there is a place that might be some people there.
 And you know it was like similar to the apostles when they were fishing all night and they've
 caught nothing.
 And then the Lord during the heat, during that daytime, he said to Peter just go and
 throw the net right there.
 And he obeyed and he went and he had such great catch there.
 Similar thing happened, I went out, I forced myself to go out, I went on the shore and
 on the shore is many people there but nobody cares about faith, people just do barbecue
 and not, I shouldn't say that, they are not interested in learning something new.
 When they see a priest they usually turn away, they don't want to find out more.
 But as I walked into some community that had a beach and some people having tea or dinner,
 one Russian lady, there was only one Russian lady on that beach, and immediately she called
 me, she said "Are you an Orthodox priest?"
 I said yes and we spoke in Russian and it happened to be that that lady, she is Orthodox,
 her whole family is Orthodox, her husband is American of Mexican descent who just was
 baptized three weeks ago and he is very serious about faith and he was praying that the Lord
 may send a priest to help establish the church here on this island of Saipan.
 And he said he was so startled, surprised, it's so fast, he says "It's too fast, I just
 prayed and here is the priest just coming and approaching".
 So they were the first Orthodox people that I met on Saipan and they happened to be the
 most active in terms of faith on the island of Saipan.
 So after this they called their friends, both Russian, Mexican, other countries, and we
 had two meetings and three services and one catechism class organized by them at their
 house and so it was a great development of the mission and I think this is the stronghold
 now of Orthodoxy on Saipan.
 And two other Mexican guys, they've made the decision to become Orthodox which is also
 very inspiring as a result of us meeting.
 So would I not have that calling to just go up, just take yourself up and bring your body
 out to that place and try to do some mission on that day, on that evening.
 If I would not do that, maybe that would not happen.
 Maybe it would be also not a successful trip for nothing.
 So I feel that that also comes from the Lord, that incense.
 And the third sign that the Lord is with us and helping us, it happened just yesterday.
 Yesterday I went to many places also distributing brochures, talking to people, but nothing.
 And at the end of the day I'm already tired and I was called to go to some night market
 to have a little snack with a friend and I was about to go there, but I was passing a
 barber shop and I thought maybe I'll be going back to Taiwan soon and I'll have to stay
 in the quarantine for 14 days, I will have long hair, hot in Taiwan.
 So I decided maybe I make haircut, not too much time, but it's okay, I'll do it.
 Because I was passing by that barber shop and I saw also one of the women who were doing
 the haircuts and she looked at me with attention and I thought why, maybe I need more business
 or maybe just a foreigner or a priest, but it happened that she looked at me like that
 because she is a very eager Christian.
 She is a Protestant, but she is very strong in prayer, in faith, and she had a feeling
 that I will bring some special message to them.
 So I didn't know that and I just walked in and they told me okay, another girl will do
 the haircut and this other girl, they are all Koreans in that shop, and most of them
 were Protestant.
 And this other girl, she asked what is Orthodox, she asked who am I, is it Jewish Orthodox?
 No, we are Christian Orthodox and she searched in Korea and she found out about Orthodoxy,
 she found out that Korea has Orthodox Church and she got really interested in that.
 And later she told me that it was on that day, morning, yesterday morning, that she
 saw a dream that Jesus, she saw Jesus in that dream and there was, she doesn't see dreams
 like that often, maybe there was first time, second time in her life.
 And she knew that maybe something special will happen today and my visit was the event
 that she connected to that vision.
 And after I walked out, I of course left my brochure contacts there, I give it to everyone.
 After 15 minutes she is calling me and inviting me for dinner in their house and also that
 other girl coming, that other woman who looked at me when I was passing by.
 And two of them, they happened to be the most serious, they had the strongest faith in that
 shop, it was maybe seven, eight people there, but they have the strongest faith.
 And we've talked about faith, about salvation, about the church, about the problems of this
 world today, all these challenges that we're going through for maybe three hours.
 And I think they are on the path to the Orthodox faith.
 And also on this day, on yesterday, we had an online class about the reading of Gospel
 of Matthew chapter eight, the reading, the reading five to 13, eight verse five to 13,
 the reading about the centurion who was outside of the church, he was even pagan.
 But Jesus said that he has faith that is stronger than anyone, anyone else's in Jerusalem, in
 Israel, that he did not find in the whole Israel, did not find anyone with such a strong
 faith.
 And this was a great notion to me that among people who have faith, the Orthodox, I haven't
 found such a strong faith as those two women who are outside of the church and they are
 Protestants.
 They just found me because of that vision today.
 This cannot be happening by chance.
 So there's also another sign for me that the Lord is with us and is accompanying us.
 And he is making the mission happen and becoming successful.
 Not us, not some special methods, not some nice written brochure, it is the Lord whose
 mighty hand is with us and doing the job.
 And I have many other instances which I believe comes from the Lord during this trip, which
 I don't have time to share right now with you, but please be strong in faith, in relying
 upon the Lord, in asking him to give us, to strengthen our faith, to help us do the testimony,
 to the ministry that we have to do, to his glory, and his mighty hand will be with us.
 Amen.
 Till the end of the world, to the glory of Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit.
 Amen.
 Lord's blessing and grace be with you.
