 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am on the islands of Hawaii and behind me you can see
 the beautiful scenery, the volcano and the trees on my way back from Guam to Taiwan.
 I have a transit here and I have a unique chance and a blessing to venerate, to build
 a group to venerate the holy icon of God of Hawaii. It is called the Hawaiian Iveron icon
 of the Mother of God. This is a miracle working icon which is producing mirror. It is a very
 fragrant liquid, oily liquid that is produced by miracle and I saw it myself. It is leaking
 from the icon and dipping inside the casket that holds this icon. And I want to introduce
 this icon and the Church of Hawaii, the situation with the church here. Well, first of all this
 land was visited by missionaries in 18th century and they came, eventually they built a church
 in 1815. They built a church here and many of them stayed and in the middle of 19th century
 Saint Innocent Viniminov, later metropolitan of Moscow, very famous missionary, he came
 here on this land and he also has done mission here. He is famous for developing mission
 in Alaska and Aleutian Islands which are not far from here. And actually the Alaskan mission
 was sending missionaries here to Hawaii to develop mission here also. And later descendants
 of these missionaries also lived here and they've done a lot of farming here even in
 the 20th century. The mission here was developed by the Russian church and all the time until
 maybe mid 20th century and the Church of America and also joined forces and developed mission
 here. At present, mainly only two missions remain. It is the mission of the Russian church,
 Rokor Russian church outside Russia and the mission of the Greek Orthodox Church. Now
 about the icon. The icon that is here is in the parish of Rokor and Father Athanasius Kole
 is rector of this parish. He brought this icon yesterday for me to venerate and we've
 served a kathistos prayer service in front of it. The icon is very interesting because
 just a regular icon printed on a regular cardboard in Russia is sovereign. Thousands of icons
 like this printed every day and later it was bought at a shop in Toronto in Canada and
 was brought here by one of the Orthodox faithful. And this icon began to produce this mirror
 in his house, very fragrant. Not too much in the beginning but later more and more and
 now it's producing a lot. It's really leaking in large amounts. It's collected and it's
 then distributed to the faithful for anointment and many miracles have happened. Ourselves
 we received this mirror in the past in Taiwan and I've took this mirror with myself to East
 Timor when we were doing a mission there and one guy who had a bad rash all around his
 body red and itchy all the time, we anointed him in a kusi in East Timor and the next day
 he was healed miraculously. Miracles like this happen many times in India, in the United
 States, many places people were healed from cancer and from all kinds of diseases. So
 it is really a wonder how Mother of God is expressing her love and care and special blessing
 to this land here. This icon was later taken to the church and was also taken to the United
 States to be inspected by the bishops to determine and give conclusion that this is really miraculous
 icon and this miracle is coming from God. It's not some kind of trick or something
 else. And later after this was done pilgrims from all over the world were coming here and
 venerating this icon. Please also come here whenever you have an opportunity to visit
 to venerate this icon to see how the mission is done here to contribute to the work of
 the mission here. The mission now is done on these islands of Hawaii but also I think
 is a good start for the mission in other countries of the Pacific, other islands, because here
 the parishioners they come from all over the place, all over the Pacific, from all those
 little islands. Of course many Asians come from Asia, Americans come from the US and
 other countries, there are some Russians here and it's also a very multicultural parish
 similar to Taiwan even more. And these people through their relatives, through their friends
 in all those different islands they can develop mission in other places as well. So I'm really
 hopeful that this can happen at some point. But a lot of mission has to be done here in
 Hawaii itself because it's like a million and a half population, it's a big state and
 it's really beautiful here. So I really hope that every one of you can visit. I did not
 expect it to be so beautiful, so nice as it is. So this is a brief introduction. I can
 tell you more about it in future if you're interested. May God bless you and give you
 Check it out.
 Thank you.
