 To you, brothers and sisters, today I am in Los Angeles and I want to share with you my
 observations and my feelings about this place, about the spiritual atmosphere of what's happening
 here now.
 The car behind me is good to illustrate the point that I want to make.
 Well, I've been to the States many times and I've been to Los Angeles a few times.
 But this time I have some new observations and some new thoughts that I want to share.
 What I discover now is the choice that people are facing between Christ and mammon.
 And unfortunately, majority of people chose mammon.
 They chose consumption, well-being, and all the goodies of this earthly life.
 And here in Los Angeles, in California, we know that this is the avant-garde of capitalism.
 This is a place that has wealth, that has all the best things that there are, ok?
 Best technologies, best products, best medicine, best houses in Beverly Hills, and anything
 you want you can find it here.
 Maybe it will be expensive, but cheaper than anywhere else, ok?
 And with vaccination, the whole world is struggling getting some vaccine, like Taiwan doesn't
 have it yet.
 But here it's been already half a year that anytime, anywhere you can get the best vaccine
 that there is, you can choose whatever you like, and no problem.
 So just a little example to illustrate that this place has all of it, ok?
 You name it, it has it.
 At the same time, I can see the large number of homeless.
 On the streets, there are so many homeless, and a lot of psychologically unbalanced people.
 Just crazy, ok?
 You can see them anywhere, not in just some neighborhoods.
 In downtown, in the outskirts, even in places like Beverly Hills, they're everywhere, ok?
 And a lot.
 And they're saying that now they're trying to force them away, but they're still everywhere.
 And we can see this great social injustice, but there is something that unites these people
 who are apparently different social classes, different situations, something that unites
 them.
 And this something is seen, ok?
 I could see the drugs, the drug use.
 People just on the bus, they're making those things, and smoking, and same with wealthy
 people, they also use drugs.
 This propaganda of Sodom, the scene of Sodom and Hamorah, ok?
 You know what I'm talking about.
 It's also everywhere.
 Even some churches, there seem to be some churches, but the churches, a lot of them
 have that propaganda symbolism of that scene, ok?
 And now even the sickness, there is now a new outbreak of Covid, and it's due to these
 parties and these clubs that people are dancing together, they're packed right now.
 Every day, every night, and many of them are this Sodom and Hamorah style, ok?
 And this lifestyle, it has open freedom, it's nothing restricting, and it's trying to grasp
 as many people as possible, both the poor and the rich, and the prostitution, the poor
 provide services for the rich, and it's all related, it's based on the scene and based
 on the greed towards money, that is common everywhere, you can feel it everywhere.
 Well this spirit of capitalism, this spirit of rich cars, nice houses, mansions, you can
 illustrate it by this car behind me, we can see that it has some pretense, it has some
 spirit that it can, ok, it's got some power, it's got some drive to it, but now it's just
 a piece of junk, it's just a metal scrap that's behind me, you cannot ride it, it's just taking
 up space, ok?
 So all of that, all of that wealthy stuff is gonna end up like that.
 We saw like big empires, like the Soviet Union, were destroyed, ok, just even in a second,
 and very soon it became just a metal scrap, like we can see here, it's collecting garbage,
 this is what's left behind, and everything is gonna become just garbage, ok?
 Just this collector will be going around to collect garbage, and everyone will become
 garbage, ok?
 It will go to dust.
 So all of that is just to trick people, ok?
 And they become crazy, because this crazy mental sickness is also something that's common,
 both to the poor and to the rich, all of them suffer.
 And people buy so much drugs in these pharmacies, they are hooked, they are addicted to these
 drugs, they need to take them all the time, ok?
 So I also was asking myself, is there Christ here?
 I was talking to people, I was visiting some bookshops, christian bookshops, protestants,
 some churches, and I can say that yes, there is Christ here, ok?
 There is Christ here, but it's very narrow for him to be here.
 He is squeezed, and it is hard for him to find a place to rest, because people are dragged
 by something else, by some other spirits.
 People are trying, there are people who are trying to find Christ.
 There are many, not majority of course, it's a small minority, but there are people who
 are seeking for Christ, but it's hard to find him here, because all these different
 sects and different churches, many of them are spiritually corrupt, and misleading people
 more than helping them find Christ.
 This way of living the values, the lifestyle, it's all making people feel that they don't
 need any religion at all, or new age, or something else, just consume, just buy, and you don't
 need any faith, any search for Christ and kingdom of heaven.
 So many theological differences that are important, now for majority of people, Christians, non-Christians,
 it's not important, because they just don't want to read about those things, they're completely
 dragged away, they're separated from this search and craving for Christ, this need is
 replaced by something else, Antichrist basically.
 The only hope I have is in Orthodox mission, Orthodox Church can bring people out from
 this delusion, from this shadow of death, that is evident here.
 But the Orthodox mission here is very weak and very small, and it's pretty much limited
 to the national groups, Russians, Serbians, Greeks, but it is important to have a mission
 that would be noticed by everyone, that this melting pot that there is, this English-speaking
 melting pot, this big culture that is dragging all people into it, it has to hear this true
 message, there should be a witnessing about the Lord in there, and I don't see much done
 in that sense.
 It's almost not noticed by people, if they want to find it, where do they look for it?
 It is important to do more, it's not that it's nothing been done, there are American
 Orthodox Americans who are purely Americans and they do mission, but it's very small,
 minuscule, and people are few.
 We need to pray more about mission here in the United States, in the heart of Mammon,
 in the heart of capitalism, and this capitalism is being replaced, we can see this garbage
 car, it's now replacing and throwing out this capitalist thing.
 What is coming up is something else, and it's not going to be closer to Christ.
 So let us think more about Christ, let us pray more, let us not be afraid of anything,
 and the other thing that I wanted to say is that here people are quite educated, most
 people have a high level of education, not all of them of course, the poor people they
 don't have, but the majority I think is quite well educated, but at the same time this doesn't
 bring them closer to God, because this propaganda, education without spiritual life is worthless,
 but without the spiritual life, with this consumerism, with this serving Mammon, people
 think about money, people think about numbers, people think about consumption, and they are
 easily programmed, you can see that most people think in the exact same way, and this way
 is far away from logic, related to this Covid things, these fears that people don't think,
 when there is complete protection from Covid they still ask the taxi driver to wear a mask,
 which is nonsense. So we can see that education doesn't give people freedom from delusion
 and from being asleep spiritually and not thinking, not using their mind, their brain.
 So these are the things that I want to share. I want to say that even though there are different
 groups, ethical groups, and everything is taken by some groups, for example the drivers
 are usually Muslims, Arabs, some hotels, parking lots, Indian people, it's all taken, so there
 are different communities, but all people are grasped, dragged by some common spirit,
 and this is done, I don't know, through music, through what people, they have some belongingness
 to this place, to this common culture that there is, it is all putting them into some
 common spirit. So it is important for us to talk to these people, to be present, to challenge
 this way of life, this spirit, and to bring the message of Christ, and to show that true
 joy is not in drugs, it's not in homosexual parties, it's not in consumption and nice
 good products, cars, mansions, what not. It is in Christ, it is in prayer, it is in the
 Holy Communion. Let us think how we can contribute to this mission, we are English speakers who
 listen to this video, and we can do something to chase Mammon out, to bring people closer
 to Christ. May the Lord help us in this, and God bless.
