 Dear brothers and sisters, I'm back to Taiwan and I want to share with you my thoughts and feelings about what happened in the world while I was away on the mission.
 Because during that time I was focused on sharing with you my mission experience, but now I'd like to say a few things about the spiritual warfare that's going on in the world.
 I won't focus on politics or economics or things like that, even though it's all related.
 Well, things like Afghanistan, things like the new outbreak of the pandemics, things like the vaccination that's going on in the world,
 the coming or, well, the proposed coming of the inclusive capitalism and to many, many things that happened,
 even including the visit of Patriarch Bartholoma to Ukraine just a week ago.
 And also the involvement of the Popobro in this inclusive capitalism scheme, banning the traditional Latin mess.
 Well, these things, they seem not so much related, but they might be related if we think about everything that happens
 as the eventual struggle of the devil against Christ and his church.
 And I don't want to be this paranoid prophet of the apocalypse and seeing Antichrist under every bush and things like that.
 And we're not afraid of Antichrist at all, but today I will say a few words about Antichrist and his agenda.
 And before talking about Antichrist, we need to, we recall, first of all, that the Apostle John is telling us that there are already many Antichrists.
 And who are these Antichrists? These are the people who are, they are very influential, they act as a savior,
 bringing some salvation and not giving any glory to God for this salvation that they bring to people.
 They return this glory to themselves, they represent themselves as the saviors. This is the spirit of Antichrist.
 And of course, they are opposing the church openly, secretly, but they feel that the church is their enemy, it's an obstacle.
 It's a danger coming from the Church of Christ, the true Church, and from Christ himself, his message.
 And to have a better feeling and understanding of, of course, they propose mammon and many things,
 serving mammon, bringing people away from Christ, they're full of lies and deceit and stuff like that.
 And it comes in different shapes and forms, but it has this common thing, this spirit of Antichrist, it's out there.
 And for us to talk about it, first I'd like to bring up the instance from the Acts of the Apostles, that's chapter 12, 20 to 23.
 This is about Herod the Agrippus, and first of all, who is Herod the Agrippus?
 It's the grandson of Herod the Great, who killed those babies, who tried to kill Christ.
 And this Herod Agrippus, he is the full brother of Herodias, the one who killed John the Baptist.
 And this Herod Agrippus, it's not the Herod Antipas, the one who killed John the Baptist,
 who later became the husband of Herodias.
 Actually, this Herod Agrippus, whom we're talking about now, he removed Herod Antipas, that Herod.
 He sent him to Rome and he was trialed, put into exile in Gaul, in France.
 And this Herod Agrippus, he became the king of Judea, and he was the Jewish, or sort of Jewish,
 they're not really Jewish, it's the whole Herodian dynasty.
 And for that reason, he was not just Roman, he was like more sort of Jewish than Roman.
 So he was accepted by many Jews as his own, their own blood.
 And this is like a restoration of the Israel Kingdom, in some sense, of Judea.
 And they supported, many of them supported him, and he gained his power through cheating,
 through deceit, getting it from the emperor of Rome.
 So this Herod Agrippus, he was very proud, very arrogant, and he was against the church.
 He killed Apostle James, the first bishop of Jerusalem, and he persecuted Peter.
 Remember, he put him into jail, also planning to kill him, but Peter was saved miraculously.
 After that, Herod ordered that all the guards would be killed, 16 of them were killed.
 Very brutal, very selfish, very arrogant.
 So, let us read what is happening here with him.
 First, it's some background.
 "And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon, but they came with one accord to him,
 having made blastous the king's chamberlain their friend, desired peace."
 So some people from there are coming and asking to have peace treaty with him, with them, okay.
 And because their country was nourished by the king's country of Kesari, he was the main town of Kesari.
 So he is really powerful, and we are coming to ask something from him, and he is sitting there
 and talking to them, okay.
 "And upon a sad day, Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne and made an oration unto them.
 And the people gave a shout, saying, 'It is the voice of a god and not of a man.'
 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory,
 and he was eaten of worms and gave up the ghost."
 So we can imagine him sitting on that throne, full of glory and shining and speaking,
 and everybody says, "It's the voice of God, it's so powerful, it's so brilliant."
 And he doesn't give glory to God, and eventually he is killed, smothened by an angel,
 and he's dying because of those worms, and they just come out of him.
 So, a very miserable death, and this is the image of the Antichrist.
 He was one of the first Antichrists, okay.
 He had all the characteristics, okay, he was powerful, he was influential,
 he was full of glory, arrogance, and he did not glorify God,
 and he persecuted the church, the holy apostles.
 Okay, so what does it have to do with our world today?
 Well, the Holy Father said that the spirit of Antichrist is always out there,
 okay, it's always out there, and it's trying to enslave all the people,
 and bring the church away from Christ, okay,
 harm the church and drag people away from God.
 So, the problem is that the world is in a big crisis, okay.
 We have these pandemics getting worse, we have the problem of poverty,
 okay, hunger, and they are saying, okay, the only salvation for capitalism
 is inclusive capitalism, okay, which is more like socialism, okay.
 Then they say that, and we remember that socialism was also
 coming as a savior, okay, to save from exploitation and to liberate people,
 but it had to be atheistic and hostile to the church.
 So, it also possessed everything that's necessary
 for Antichrist, okay, the spirit of Antichrist,
 and bringing salvation, the material, the mammon,
 okay, we will build a bright future. There was also
 a mammon thing, okay, and that's not to say that capitalism is
 much better, and so this inclusive capitalism agenda
 that's being pushed, okay, we have the pushing of this digital thing,
 we will be also like saving humanity from many things,
 many problems, difficulties. We are having this
 artificial intelligence coming also to save people, to help them
 overcome their problems, okay, and we'll need eventually
 more global world, more like the central governments, what they say,
 which will be above governments, okay, to solve problems like this
 crisis in Afghan, all these wars, but now it's on a global scale, not like
 in time of Herod, okay, and now we don't see yet, we don't see
 any figure or any ideology, any regime
 that would be coming and saying, now glorify me,
 because I am saving the world from all those things,
 okay, so our concern is more not about whether, okay, these
 vaccines have some danger or that we will have
 some chip or some, you know, this concentration camp or like to total
 control by big brother and stuff like that, that's
 not the main concern, spiritually speaking, where don't be
 afraid of those who kill the flesh, be afraid of the one who can
 let the soul perish in hell, only afraid of God, be afraid of God,
 and be afraid of sin, so how that can be related to sin,
 that can be related only when there will be some kind of,
 okay, savior or the regime of that savior that will say,
 now glorify me, because I'm solving the problem for you,
 and we don't need God, okay, we just need me to solve all these problems, so when
 all these different things, if they will be
 placed together in that context, that's when we will see that it's the
 agenda of the Antichrist, and we need to be
 aware of that, and also we remember that the Pope of Rome very often acted as a
 savior, okay, and by uniting
 the different countries, and by saving from Islam at some point, and
 with his cruises, and many other things, and at the same time he
 was hostile to the church, to the Orthodox Church, okay, and now he is
 united with this very inclusive capitalism agenda,
 there is the Council of Inclusive Capitalism and the Vatican,
 there is a cooperation going on there, so he might also act in this
 anti-christian, and for us Orthodox, of course, there is
 some anti-christian nature in him becoming the
 head of the church, okay, the vicar of Christ, okay, we don't
 say that he is anti-christ, but the temptation is out there,
 and we can even say that about the Bartholomew, the
 so-called patriarch, we don't recognize him anymore,
 that he came to Ukraine to save the Orthodox people of Ukraine
 from many things, okay, but in reality all that
 that leads to is persecution and suffering for the true
 Orthodox people of Ukraine, so that's also coming from anti-christ,
 we can see that, and we can see that clearly now,
 okay, so let us be aware of that spiritual struggle that is going on,
 and when we can participate in it, we fight
 against the evil, but we fight to become closer to Christ, not because
 we're afraid of anything, we use anti-christ in order to get
 closer to Christ, okay, these outcomes of evil we are
 utilizing them for us to get closer to our beloved
 Christ, so let us do that, and
 there is also a question of whether we should be
 happy that those days or times that are coming, or we should be sad and
 worried and afraid, well, basically we should be
 happy because Christ is coming, the second coming,
 which we accept, which we expect, and also because this gives us
 these final persecutions that there will be during these times,
 and all that anti-christ agenda will be
 for us a great opportunity to grow, become stronger,
 and to fight with the evil, so we are happy about that,
 and we are not happy, we are sad about the ugliness of the world
 which departs from Christ, and that's why some holy fathers, they said
 they don't want to live until those days, because the world will become so ugly
 and a domination that
 it won't be a good place to be spiritually,
 okay, so we are both happy and sad, and that's often
 what happens in the church, we are happy that somebody
 met with Christ, but we're sad that he departed from us, came with so many days,
 and many other examples, so let us be strong, let us pray to God,
 to Christ, and be close to Him, that's the main goal, to learn how to
 love Christ, and how to be with Him all the time with
 Christ, in Christ, in His salvation. Amen. God bless you,
 and be wise, be strong.
