 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am in the south part of Taiwan, in the city of Kaohsiung.
 And here we just recovered, we had the first service after the lockdown.
 Glory to God that it's over, but now we received this message, this lesson, that we need to be ready.
 And maybe ready for things much worse than we had.
 And also it's the beginning of the new school year.
 And this new school year is also reminding to us that we need to treat our Christian life as study, as learning, as growing in Christ, year by year, month after month.
 Our faith is not just "ok, I belong to this faith, yes I believe", and that's fine.
 No, if we are not growing, if we are not becoming more mature in Christ, as Apostle Paul said,
 if we come into the perfect man, man in Christ, we are wasting our time, we are not following Christ.
 So let us today think about what is our understanding of ourselves, our roles as Christians, as the Church.
 What is our self-vision, self-conscience as a Church in these times that are getting closer to the last times.
 And this change that's happening now, it's one of these turns on the path to these apocalyptic times.
 Humanity is getting there with this winding road, and will be there eventually.
 So when this is happening, we need to think of the whole perception of the Church of itself.
 And it also needs to be changed, because we can see that now the early times of the Church existence are recovering.
 We are going back to those times, but in the new shape.
 These times were times when the Church was a minority, the Church was illegal, was persecuted by the government,
 the government was totalitarian at that time, and the social structure was slavery, the society.
 But at that time this slavery was not as bad as we are going to get in the near future.
 That slavery was a slavery that only the soul or the body of the person belonged to some ruler.
 And that ruler was many, many different rulers. And he had no freedom, but he was conscious of that.
 Now the slavery that is coming is going to be a mental slavery.
 The person will be completely enslaved, his soul, his heart, his mind, it will be a property.
 And the ruler and the owner of this will be just one, very centralized, not like in the past.
 So it's going to be like a big sect, a big global sect, a society.
 That's where we are going to. Through technologies, through all kinds of ways, it's going to be there at some point.
 And we have greater pressure on the true Christian message. It's increasing.
 We will have more censorship, more and more restrictions, you need to comply to the whole system.
 So we are going back to those times.
 And the times that were from the time of Saint Constantine the Great, when all people became Christians.
 Until this time, our time, this was a very nice time.
 And this was the time of the majority people, at least they were not against Christian message.
 Maybe not all of them lived by it.
 But it was in power, and the majority of rulers had Christian faith, in Europe, in the United States.
 But now we are getting further and further away from that.
 But our mentality is still back there, our church mentality.
 And this mentality became what? It became that I can do nothing.
 I'm just coming, participating, and everybody else is Christian.
 And we're just waiting from the church authorities to give us message, to establish the system, how it's going to run,
 where the finance is going to come from, and many, many other things.
 And I'm nothing, I'm just a participant. I just have to have some relationship with God, pray, and then go home, and that's it.
 In the early church, the mentality was very different.
 The mentality was that I am a witness of Christ.
 Christ is expecting something from me, and I need to go and do things for Christ.
 I don't need to expect anything coming from somewhere, and bishops, maybe they are in a prison, all of them.
 And we had that recently with the Soviet Union.
 So I don't expect anything from bishop, from patriarchs, from somewhere.
 I just go and do as much as I can myself.
 And also, the mission, the preaching of the church is very important.
 When everybody is Christian, there is not so much importance, but now it's super important.
 And it's very important not that we wait, that somebody is going to do a mission program,
 it's going to be a department of mission, and stuff like that.
 No, it's a small-scale mission that is important.
 I go, I talk to people, I talk to my relatives, I talk to my friends, I share with them my faith, I do this testimony.
 And if one person comes to faith through such effort, that's going to be a great achievement.
 Maybe much more than any department or anything else achieves, because that's a bureaucratic thing.
 But I am sharing a life, faith that is alive, that is bringing fruit, that is changing someone's heart.
 So this mission becomes very important.
 And the importance of this family church becomes important.
 Like in the early church, we remember Apostle Paul is writing to the, okay, my greetings to the family church.
 And he lists the people for that.
 And so the church was on a family scale.
 We need to think about this.
 We need to think about this, we not just belong to some parish and it has like 500 people.
 No, it's important that on the family level we have this church.
 If we cannot do that, we share with our friends.
 And this is another issue.
 And also on the parish level, it's important that we have this community spirit.
 And every one of us, we need to contribute to that, to do more initiatives, to care about each other,
 to help the priest in different projects, to propose new ideas, and to work on realizing them.
 So that becomes very important, because now it's not much.
 People are used to just a big crowd comes to the church and everybody prays and everybody goes back home.
 And there is not much feeling of community and belongingness and responsibility for this community.
 That is something that is very important.
 If we don't have that, the devil will break us very fast, one by one.
 So those things are super important in our times, when there will be big prosecutions upon the church.
 If we are going to be waiting for a big parish to be established, it will never be done.
 But if we have a small understanding, even in-house, even one family, two families, several people, we come together, we pray.
 That is very strong. And the devil, that's a very big hit on the devil.
 Also, we can see that big changes, big contributions to the church were done on the individual scale.
 The Lord chose one person who was ready, and through that person he has done big plans.
 Like with the great constant, the constant in the great.
 Just changing the whole empire, become Christian.
 Or with Saint Athanasius the Great.
 He was against this heresy, and he was at some point the only bishop fighting against that heresy.
 And eventually he won, and Orthodoxy, a true fake, overcame.
 We had Alexander Nevsky, he said "No, we don't need Catholicism in Russia."
 And because of him, his position, his stand, he was able to protect the church and the land.
 And we have many, we have Mark of Ephesus, who was just one bishop who was against the betrayal of Orthodox faith.
 He was just one, everybody else betrayed.
 But because of him, the plan failed, the whole plan failed.
 And many other examples, so we should not think that I can do nothing, I'm so small, I don't have education, I don't have anything.
 We just need, if we do any plan, any mission, we need a blessing, and we do it.
 We do it as a member of the church, but we are very active and very mission oriented.
 We feel that mission, that calling from the Lord, and with humble heart, not because I'm super poop, no, I'm nothing.
 We should not think this because I am some important thing.
 No, it's just because that happened like that.
 The Lord helps me to become a little break in the system.
 The plan of Saturn, and the Apostle Paul says we're not unaware of the plans of the Saturn.
 The plan of Saturn right now is that the whole population will be just like herd of swine running in one direction.
 And everybody is going to work in that way.
 And everything, his plan is going to succeed because everybody is brainwashed in such a way that they are going to run and embrace whatever he wants.
 So it's spiritual.
 He can do it only when the whole society is spiritually subject to that.
 And the society is more and more manipulated now.
 Like even 50, 70 years ago there was not such manipulation that's going on right now.
 This is consumerist society when people, they have no protection.
 What they hear, they hear these ads.
 You buy this, you buy this, and they go and buy.
 And the news, you need to be afraid of that.
 And everybody is afraid of that.
 People are much more prone to such manipulations these days.
 Even though it seems to be more education, but actually people used to be thinking much more autonomously in those days.
 Even 50, 60 years ago.
 But now people just think in one direction.
 Whatever they're told, they believe and they do.
 So in this situation, even one person can become this flaw in this system.
 And as a big robot is going and if some little part breaks, he will be stuck.
 So our goal right now is to make this project of the devil stuck, not going through.
 And that can be done even on individual level.
 And on the level of small groups, family, church, community, little community.
 We have to feel this, that we are against the flaw.
 Everybody flows, everything flows in one direction and we're going in the opposite direction.
 This is self-conscious that we need to see.
 Because in the past it was everybody Christian, everybody all together, we go with the flow, that's the direction, the Lord wants us to go there.
 No, that's not the case anymore.
 Now it's over.
 Now the whole direction is going to destruction, to Antichrist.
 But we go in another direction.
 We go to Christ.
 And also the Lord said that one small east can change the whole bread.
 And the modern world is like this, it's easy to be changed.
 People become less and less autonomous.
 So we have to use this in order to contribute to the change in the right direction.
 And Satan, he knows about this method and he is also using it.
 And we can see that a big destruction to this world.
 Big projects of Satan also get accomplished through very few people.
 They are crazy maniacs, like Lenin or Trotsky or some other revolutionaries, Napoleon, Hitler.
 He is just one crazy maniac who has no fear and he just goes and does it.
 Very often they are Satanists, they are occultists, they are perverts and they just go and just break and just do it.
 And everybody else is afraid and scared and they say "Okay, yes, yes, yes, we'll do whatever you say."
 So Devil also acts through these vessels of Devil, these demonic people who are demon-possessed basically.
 And he can succeed, very often he succeeds in that sense.
 Of course we are driven not by this fanatic crazy maniac thing.
 We are driven, we have to be driven by love of Christ.
 We love Christ and we can go crazy because we love him.
 We can accept risks, we can do many things because we love Christ and we are ready to do things for him.
 And he will give us vision, he will give us blessing, we need to be still, humble, receive blessing for whatever we do and go and do it.
 So let us pray for that, let us have a clear understanding of what the Devil, Satan, what he wants and to make it not happen, whatever he wants.
 We are against all of that, all of those plans and we don't want our fellow people, we don't say "Oh, hell with it, this world is going to hell, be it so."
 No, it's our people, it's our brothers and sisters in Christ, in Adam, those who are not in the Church, they are brothers and sisters in Adam.
 We need to do whatever we can, whatever it takes to help them avoid this delusion, avoid this destruction and the Lord will give us wisdom and help us.
 May the Lord's peace and wisdom be with you and me.
