 Dear brothers and sisters. Today I want to say about heresy and heretics because the spirit of ecumenism and delusion is very strong at this time.
 And even within the true church, the Orthodox Church, there are people who are misled by this spirit and the ideas behind them.
 And when we talk about heresy, we need to remember always love towards everyone, towards the heretics.
 We need to remember repentance, that we ourselves are much worse than they as people.
 We just happen to be in the true church, but it's not our merit.
 We also need to remember not to accuse anyone. Well, the Lord is both just and merciful.
 So, to whom is he just? He is just to people who are not asking for his mercy.
 He is claiming everything from them. He will claim everything.
 And he said that the judgment is mine. It's not yours.
 So don't judge anyone. Don't accuse anyone of anything.
 But he also gave the commandment to say about sins of sinners, to witness that somebody is in error.
 So, we don't say that we just care about our own sins.
 If somebody is sinning, if somebody is making error and this is harmful to the church,
 we need to, on behalf of the church and with the power of the church, not our own, we need to indicate this is wrong, this is false.
 And we do it with love and hoping that people can repent and also find the truth.
 Today also we recall the cutting of the head of Saint John the Baptist.
 And this happened as an outcome of this dance. Remember the daughter of Herodias, she was dancing and Harold and his friends liked it.
 This, of course, was an adult dance. That was the kind of dance that was.
 And eventually he said, I will give you everything, even my half of my kingdom.
 Then she went and she asked her mother, what should I ask? And the head of John the Baptist.
 And then she went and said, give me the head of John the Baptist. And Herod had to kill him and to give over the head.
 And this gives us the clue that this adultery, because that was an adulterous event when they were watching this woman dancing.
 This tells us, of course, about these adult movies, what they can lead to. And this adultery seems to be that people love each other.
 However, the outcome is death, sin, betrayal of true love, broken marriages and eventually even killing.
 So this murder of Saint John the Baptist. So all of that is related.
 So in the same way, saying that there is no heresy, everybody believes in Jesus, hallelujah, everything is fine.
 This ecumenical spirit is the adultery, it's betrayal of Christ and of true church.
 So it seems to be that it's people friendly and they're not at war with each other.
 But eventually this is betrayal of Jesus. So to be aware of that, we need to understand for ourselves what is heresy and who are heretics.
 And there are at least two definitions of heresy. Heresy is the teaching or the distortion of the true faith.
 It's also people who believe in Christ, but in the wrong way.
 And another definition is the group of people, like organization. We can also say it's the heresy.
 So it's two things and two different concepts. And heretics, who is a heretic?
 It's also there are two types of heretics, at least two types. One type are the aggressive heretics.
 Those who are convinced that their mistakes are right and they don't listen to the church and they're hostile to the church.
 They're trying to harm the church and misleading thousands of people to follow them, which is also harm to the church.
 That's one type, aggressive. And another one is not aggressive. Those are who happen to be in the heresy.
 Maybe they were born in a heretic family or maybe they were pagans or atheists and they heard about Christ from heretics and something that attracted them into this faith.
 It's faith in Christ and not heresy, not those distortions. So they're looking for Christ and they're humble.
 And I'm convinced that that kind of heretic would eventually be coming to the true faith, to the church of Christ.
 So these are two types. Maybe you can say third type of heretic is a type of heretic who doesn't care.
 It's like a nominal heretic who became Catholic or Protestant, but he doesn't really care about his faith.
 OK, that's another type of heretic. We don't talk about it now.
 So what are the main problems with heresy? Why we say we need to be careful and we need to avoid any heresy.
 We remember in the Old Testament, at some point, even it was forbidden to marry with, say, Samaritans, even to talk to them or with pagans, with Babylonians or Philistimians or another nation.
 Because why? Because of that religious influence that they would have.
 And the same thing comes with heretics. There is this religious influence that can come and can spoil the true authentic faith in Christ.
 And let us talk what kind of influence we can have. The first is hidden Gnosticism.
 Gnostic ideas are many. There is theism, there is theosophy with Blavatskaya and other heretic, those occult ideas that you can gain some power.
 And this magic power can give you some wisdom and you are like the chosen one and you are much higher and brighter than everyone else.
 And which is based on the proud, based on selfishness, egoism and many, many other ideas that led to Hitler and Gnosticism.
 There are capitalist ideas that treat people, regular people, as animals or garbage and there is this Masonic stuff.
 And in the ancient times there were different Gnostic sects and they had ideas, for example, that matter is a source of evil.
 This influenced modern Protestantism. Matter is a source of evil. Or there is the idea that God and man are of a different world.
 God is divine, he is there, and man is just carnal. This is also influencing both Protestantism and Catholicism.
 Or that God is some principle of universe and he is not personal, you cannot really talk to him. There are different wrong ideas and all of them are trying now to come in a disguised form of Christianity.
 Yes, we are Christians, we all believe in Christ, we all read the Bible, but in fact they are full of that, of those Gnostic ideas.
 Which is harmful, of course. It brings people not to salvation, to something else, to destruction, to mistake.
 That's one thing. That's basically, in a nutshell, what is heresy. It is some form of Gnostic occult teaching which has nothing to do with Christ, per se.
 But it can use the name of Christ to facilitate, to promote its ideas.
 Another danger that's coming from heresy is syncretism. Syncretism is basically a communism, that says that everything is about the same.
 Don't really worry about those differences that we have, it's all coming from historical, political reasons, but now basically you believe in Christ, I believe in Christ, he believes in Buddha, well he is almost like us.
 So we just come together, we eat pizza together and we just aim for union, and this is very good, because it's not war, no hostility.
 And this spirit is the spirit of adultery, which also seems to be like a union between people, many people, but it's adultery, it's not love.
 It seems to be love, but it's not. So this is the problem, because people are far away from the living God, all of them are far.
 So they become, okay, if we are far from him, we just unite among ourselves.
 They are alienated from God, from his protection, from his guidance, from his wisdom.
 And then the only thing that is left is to get together and eat pizza. Of course not all heresies are like that.
 There are heresies who are not ecumenists, they are sects, they emphasize that we are the best and we are the only truth and everything else is anti-Christ.
 And this is another radical side, which we have to avoid. We as a true church, we need to avoid this sectarian mindset.
 Because sect has fear, it has no love, and it is completely closed upon itself. It's like demon possessed.
 And we are not like that. The Holy Church cannot be like that. We need to avoid this mindset when we fight with heresies, because that's another limit of the spectrum.
 Okay, the third problem that we have with the heresies is the destructive practices that they have.
 Because we have all kinds of charismatic who use hypnosis, who are crazy laughing and crying and stuff like that.
 They are harmful for human spirit, for human soul, psychological health, they bring family problems, they bring all kinds of problems, and even demon possession.
 And these meditations that are practiced in the Catholic environment, and practices like romantic ideas about God, and many other ideas and practices which are promoted as spiritual exercises.
 But in fact, they bring people far away from God, and destroy his personality, and make him addicted to those practices. And these things are really worrisome.
 And not all heresies have them, of course. Some heresies are more conservative, they don't go as far as to use practices like that. But it doesn't mean that they are not heresies.
 It's just they are not as harmful. Okay, the fourth problem is that these heresies that there are...
 Well, what is a heresy? A heresy is anything outside the Orthodox Church, okay?
 And some heresies are good, some are aggressive, but basically we're talking about everything that's outside.
 And having this alienation from the living God brings to spiritual disorders.
 And this is corruption, spiritual decay that's happening in those environments, in those heretic environments.
 And because of that they have this decay, they also embrace the ideas or philosophies from this decaying world, from this secular world that there is out there.
 And such ideas, for example, as psychology, secular psychology based on Freud, Freudism, or in the past socialism.
 Some pastors, priests, they became socialists, many of them.
 Or environmentalism, which becomes eco-terrorism, possessed with ideas about biocentrallism.
 That animals are more precious than humans and that we need to destroy the population of the planet or reduce it and stuff like that.
 And becoming possessed by those ideas, new age ideas, even some ideas from Buddhism and Hinduism or some yoga or some other practices.
 This is really foreign and far away from the Christian message from Christ, but people embrace all kinds of garbage like that because they are decaying themselves.
 They don't have a feel of what is true and what is right and healthy, and that's why they embrace all of that.
 And the fifth, the last that I want to talk about today is those heresies.
 They are harmful because they become like fake churches. They say that we are a church, but it's not a church.
 They have a wrong idea, they don't have even the theology of the church, most of them.
 And they are like substituting the true church and to say, well, it's all the same, just come here.
 Because we also have Bible, we have prayer, we have some service and stuff like that.
 But those people who spent many years in those denominations, congregations, they say it's just empty garbage.
 After spending decades in those places, they say there is nothing in there.
 It's just coming together, dancing. It's really empty garbage and we don't want to believe and follow empty garbage.
 And that's the main reason why the West is departing from Christ.
 The people, they are disappointed with every church that they went to and they are not finding the true one.
 And there is this general disappointment about Christianity and people in part, they believe in new age, in burning man.
 They believe in Buddhism, Islam, and many other strange, crazy sects and things.
 Or some of them, they just don't believe in anything, just believe in money, just believe in comfort.
 So that's another religion of Mama.
 So we can see that, but not everybody can understand that, especially in the mission environment like Taiwan here.
 People see that it's all foreign, it's all something new.
 They all bring something about God, they all have Bible in their hands.
 There is still no lack of this understanding, there is just empty garbage.
 So let us think about this.
 Again, we need to recall that we have to avoid judging, accusing people.
 This is a big venture for us and we have to avoid this Pharisee spirit or the spirit of a lawyer.
 This is wrong, this is outside the canonical church, so it's all garbage.
 No, people are not garbage, people are precious treasury of Christ.
 And we need to be ready to die for them, to pray for them, to love them, we need to love them.
 We are here in the true church not because we are super smart or something,
 because we are big sinners, maybe worse than anyone else,
 and the Lord found a way to bring us here into the true church.
 And there is no merit on our part on this, and we are failing him all the time.
 And the heretics are doing much more in terms of service to Christ than we do,
 even though they don't know much about Christ and they have all kinds of errors in there.
 So, these are the things, and this adultery thing. Why is it important not to go with the flow, with all this ecumenist agenda?
 Because it is aiming to spoil the church from within.
 And we see how those pseudo-churches, those fake churches, how they were spoiled.
 They were not ecumenist all the time.
 But slowly, slowly, this is like the adultery.
 The society used to have Christian values, strong families.
 But movies, first it was the nobles who were writing about this adultery stuff.
 Then it was movies.
 First they said the husband is such an evil guy, but his wife and some other guy, they love each other,
 and they are so good, and they suffer, so it's okay that they are together, which is adultery.
 When people receive this idea, there is a next step.
 Now, why marry? If you love somebody so much, why marry her? Just live together.
 Then live together with many women.
 So, with this adultery, it's coming gradually.
 In the same way, these ecumenist ideas and all these pervert ideas are also step-by-step,
 trying to bring formerly more strict, more traditional people to these ecumenist, liberalistic ideas.
 So, we need to be aware of that, we need to be on guard all the time, and we need to be close with Christ.
 As soon as we unite with him, we are close, we live in him.
 All those areas, we will see them right away, all those things that are trying to mislead us,
 and we will be kept in truth in Christ, and we will win with him,
 and we will bring his message and let it shine to everyone in this world.
 Amen.
 May the Lord help us in this and give us his blessing.
 Amen.
