 Dear brothers and sisters, this year we have a lot of elections in many countries, we have unplanned elections in Canada, we have elections in Russian parliament very soon.
 And there is a question of what should Christians, how does a Christian deal with these things?
 Because we are citizens, but first of all we are citizens in heavens.
 How do we treat this politics and the elections that we are called to participate in?
 Today I will not talk about politics per se, but I want to say about the spiritual aspects of this political system that we have.
 Well, you know everyone that it's a very dirty thing, politics, because you always need to say something bad about your political opponents,
 you need to always glorify yourself, say how great you are, and there is a spirit of Antichrist in it.
 And also you need to say that you are a savior, you will save people, you will build hospitals, you will increase pension plans and many many goodies,
 you need to save people from something, from coronavirus, from something else.
 So you are a savior, you need to present yourself as a savior, which is also Antichristian.
 You need to promise these things that will never happen, and you know you won't accomplish those things, we know about that.
 And this is deceit, and deceit comes from whom? It comes from the devil.
 So all these things, without wish, you cannot do politics in this time.
 They have the spirit of Antichrist and the devil behind them, and that's why we see a bunch of clowns every time there is elections,
 and they are using some ways to attract attention to them, and they argue with each other, and they promise all kinds of stuff.
 And everybody is talking about it, everybody is thinking about it, and very often it distracts attention from something important to something unimportant.
 And they are using many ways, they use green agenda to say we are good, but behind it they have some other things they want to destroy small businesses and stuff.
 And it's all very tricky and it's all not honest and very selfish.
 You have to be super selfish, arrogant, if you want to be a politician.
 And when we study a platform, different programs of different parties, political systems, political views,
 we will discover that there is no truth in any of them.
 They will tell you that liberals are, for example, there for the people, which seems to be good.
 But at the same time that means that they will promote this sort of meat stuff, and they will promote something else.
 We are for this, we are for conservative values, that's another party, but also that brings with it that corporations need to control resources,
 and we don't need much taxes, and people will be also split away from these resources.
 So it's all very tricky and you won't find the party or the truth, the people who are really trying to do what God wants.
 You won't find such a party, it doesn't exist.
 And these parties, they are used, there are people who are behind these parties, and when they need to push some agenda, they allow some parties to go forward, to win more seats.
 Then they've done it and they've done something unpopular with the people, immediately they bring another one.
 And this is how they do. And it's all manipulation and it's all brainwash.
 And people behind it, you'll never know who they are.
 And it's basically the system that they built, which is behind it, which are the guidelines and rules and everything, protocols,
 which are behind these political parties and which don't change that fast as these leaders.
 And also people with resources, people who possess all the wealth or the financial resources or minerals or some other things, armies.
 Those people, they usually don't elect them and you don't know who they are very well.
 And they won't lose their power, don't worry for them, they'll keep it no matter which party comes to the arena.
 So these politicians, more and more they are actors, like Arnold Schwarzenegger, former governor of California.
 They choose an actor because they need actors. For these positions it becomes more and more just a show.
 They don't make decisions, real decisions.
 So the more he is like a puppet, the better, the more support he gets from those guys.
 So basically all of that is very fake, very anti-Christian. Why? Why is it like this?
 We can think about the Holy Scripture. In the ancient times, Israel, they were governed by judges.
 We have Samson, Gideon, others who were charismatic leaders, who were anointed by some prophets, usually.
 And they received this mission by coming from God and they went and they governed, they led those Israelites, Jews, and they won wars and stuff.
 But these people of Israel, at some point they said we want a king, we don't want these judges.
 Because today you have a judge, but then you don't have a judge.
 For 20 years you don't know what you can do and somebody comes and conquers you.
 It's very unstable. We need to believe that God really cares for us, but it's difficult.
 We need to keep up with these commandments and stuff.
 But it's difficult. We just want to have a peaceful life and we just want to earn our bucks and everything is going to be alright.
 So we want others. We want a king that will be stable. We want a king that will be his son and it's a much more stable system than we have now.
 We'll have prosperity, we'll have military, we'll have a lot of stuff if we have a king.
 And God said, well now they want a king. Why? Because they don't want me to be their king.
 So that was apostasy. There was one step away from God. And God said yes, well if they want they'll get it.
 And they got Saul, the very tyrannical and despotic king.
 Then they had David, Solomon, got better, but still it was already a new period, a period of kings.
 The period of judges was over. And this period of kings and emperors basically continued, more or less, give or take.
 Of course we have republic in the Roman Empire, but generally we had something similar all the way till the modern times, till those bourgeois revolutions in Europe.
 We have the English revolution in the 16th century, overthrowing of kings.
 Step by step the whole Europe got rid of kings and then the whole world got rid of kings almost.
 Now we have some, but it's different also.
 So we have this world that we live in. Most of it is in so-called democracy.
 There are some totalitarian states, but most of it is democracy.
 And if there are kings they're not very real, they don't have much power.
 So this democracy is, what is it? It is basically another step away from God.
 That's why it's so filthy, that's why it's so anti-Christian in nature.
 Because it is another step away. And in what way is it a step away from God?
 It's in the way that a king had some spiritual role.
 He was like a father. We need to have some moral responsibility, some loyalty to him.
 And we receive him as father. And also we receive him as anointed from God.
 So if we have a bad king, we treat it as punishment to us, we need to repent from God.
 And we need to have patience and we need to pray more, live a better life, morally, to get better.
 And to get better treatment from God next time, the king will.
 And also we need to obey. But then people said we don't want to obey anything.
 We just want to, we need this vainglory that I participate in the decision.
 So these elections, they ask me what I think, who should be the next leader.
 So this is vainglory and this is coming from the devil who said you will be like kings.
 Oh yes, I'm like a king. I'm like gods.
 So in these people think that they partake some responsibility of God, some functions of God on themselves.
 And now we decide. Of course you don't really decide anything.
 But that's another question. And also this made it the distance between God and man greater.
 Because now we don't want, God is somewhere, it's just some personal thing, you believe him or not.
 But the people here, we just fix the things on earth and president or something, it's just the same as us.
 He doesn't have any spiritual content, so we don't like him, we just throw him out, choose another one.
 So it's all us, men here on earth. So this metaphysical and this moral relationship, it's all broken, it's all destroyed.
 So this is also departure from God. We live without God just to have our own world, our own way of doing things.
 So we can see this anti-Christian nature and this apostasy on the global scale taking place with this coming, embracing of this democracy so-called and this election system.
 Then we can see that this political system, I've also already said that it's run by some people behind the scenes, we don't know them.
 And in the parables, in the gospel, we see that when somebody doesn't want God, the God gives him over to whom? To another Lord. And that another Lord is Satan.
 Then when the slave came to the master and he had nothing to pay the debt, the master said just take him, his wife, his children, sell them and give me the debt.
 That's how God treats people who don't want them, who don't ask them for mercy, who just have debts against God. They owe God things.
 He just gives them over to another master and that master is Mammon, devil, anti-Christ, call him whatever you want. So basically that's the temptation.
 So the power behind this scene, behind this political decoration that we see, the temptation is Mammon.
 And this is why we can also judge from the fruits. What are the fruits of this political system? We just look back 150 years ago and compare the world today with that world.
 First of all, before we do that, I want to say what kind of goodies this regime promised. How was it able to trick the people? I've already mentioned about this fake notion that you make a difference, that you have this power that belongs to God, now it belongs to you.
 Also, they said, now we will have peace, we won't have war. In the past all these countries were fighting each other in Europe, all in blood and stuff. But now we have a more peaceful life.
 Well, in some places that's true. In many other places, no, we have wars and until now everywhere. In the past it was peaceful times were longer than now. But of course there were big wars also.
 But less wars doesn't mean that everything became better. Because when you have... through war it also can be an instrument of God's punishment.
 When people live according to their own will, the war begins. But now people live in sin, but there is no war. So they sin more and more and they get further away from God.
 Then another thing is the economy will grow. We have more factories, we have more things that we can afford, less people who are hungry in the so-called developed countries.
 And this also is mammon. People who are not high spiritually, but have more and more wealth, they get further and further away from God.
 They don't need God even more. They don't think about morals, about prayer, about the Bible. The more stuff they have, the more wealth they accumulate.
 So that's a goodie that is given by this Antichrist, by this new system. And people embrace it, they take it and they are deceived by it and they are led away from God.
 And of course now we have this so-called sustainable development. We give you sustainable development. And people embrace it.
 But actually it means depopulation, it means digitalization, it means that you have this electronic prison system and many other things that come with it.
 Total control and no privacy and nothing. So the devil is tricking. Like in the past it was also tricking. If you have a king, it's better than you have judges.
 Now you have democracy, you have this president, it's much more stable, much better than you have a king.
 Well, so these things are used to trick us. But what are the outcomes, the fruits of this?
 What are the fruits? We look back 150 years ago. Morals are much higher at that time. Now it's variable. Families - destroyed. Some values - loyalty, honesty, no. Personal gain, egoism and all kinds of garbage in the mind, minds of people.
 Religion - no need for the religion. Or some crazy occultist new age stuff. Or just no need for religion, for prayer, all the cathedrals empty, become condominiums, people don't need religion anymore.
 Going into virtual things, keep playing games and other things, digitalization, escape from reality, live in something else, no responsibility for anything, live in your own fantastic fake world, become more and more stupid.
 People don't think, they don't know, they don't read literature, they don't know anything, they need to Google up everything, they become more stupid.
 What they hear in those media, in internet, that's what they believe that was they do. They don't have autonomous thinking. Education level went down.
 Culture is destroyed and absent. We don't have any culture left. Only this post-modernist pseudo-culture, anti-culture. We don't have real culture, we can see it from everything.
 These are the fruits. You say it's not related. No, it is related. It is related to the way people live. If it's like a family, like a church model, there is monarch, there is loyalty to him, there is obedience, there is some hierarchy.
 Or there is what we have now, just a crowd. It's not a democracy, it's an ochlocracy. Ochlocracy is a crowd, and it's not really an ochlocracy, it becomes more and more a satanocracy. The devil, the Antichrist is controlling things from behind.
 Ok, so through occultist people, people who have power, many of them are just maniacs, and occultists, and psychopaths. And it's quite a devil, even a satanist.
 So the devil is controlling through those people. He is trying to control more and more the rest of humanity. And that's why we're approaching this end of the world fast.
 But let us not be afraid of all of that. Let us be wise, let us know what's happening, where we are, and what's going on in this world. Let us also not to be tricked by these pre-election promises, because they also promise only earthly stuff.
 They promise peace, health, welfare, wealth, well-being, liberties, and all those things. They are good, good for earthly people. But for spiritual people, for Christians, good is what brings people to God.
 And sometimes it may be poverty, or it may be something that's not so pleasant. So ideologically, we are very different from that.
 It's not the opposite, but it's different categories for us that are important. Those things like how many hospitals you build, how many workplaces you create.
 These are good. I'm not saying it's bad, but it's on the tenth place, thirtieth place. It's not the main priority for a Christian. Don't rely on kings, on princes, sons of men. That's the whole description, because there is no salvation in them.
 Okay, this is coming from Psalms of David. So we don't rely, we don't trust, we don't think all the salvation will come from this guy. He is the guy. No, salvation won't come from him, only from the Lord.
 I'm not calling you not to vote, or to vote, or to vote for someone, but just to know what's going on, and to be wise spiritually about these things.
 May the Lord help you and give you blessing. Amen.
