 Dear brothers and sisters, if we want to avoid the temptation of the devil, we need to know about the two main tasks that the devil and Antichrist have right now,
 regarding each and every one of us, and the whole world as a whole.
 Well, his task is to make us disappointed about Christ and about Church.
 Because he wants us to be away, to step away from God. The apostasy means stepping out, stepping off, getting away.
 And this is the main sin. When Christ is talking about sin, he says, "This is the main sin. They did not believe me."
 And this sin brings up all other sins. The Apostle Paul is also saying, because they did not glorify him as God,
 he delivered them to all kinds of carnal temptations and all kinds of sins.
 So, it will be the new Lord, mammon, for these people. And they will be serving this mammon, which is devil.
 So, this is the fundamental sin for people not to be in this love relationship with God.
 And the task of the Church is not to make us believe in something, believe, accept some ideas, concepts, no.
 The task is that we establish this loving relationship, searching.
 Blessed are those who thirst for righteousness, that we're thirsting for truth, for righteousness.
 We want to fill ourselves with God, and as the deer is running to the spring of water, my soul is searching for you, my Lord.
 So, seek first and foremost the Kingdom of Heaven. The Lord wants us to be in that state, in that kind of state.
 And whenever we are disappointed, we have this deep disappointment that the Church doesn't give me something.
 Or, Lord, He will not give me something. That's when this stepping out happens.
 And as in the real, in the regular life, we know all the divorces happen because of that disappointment about each other.
 Or even not divorce, just this calming down of relationship, some kind of disappointment, some expectations were not fulfilled.
 The politicians, they promise you all the stuff and then they don't do it, and we're disappointed, we hate them.
 Then we have any kind of broken relationship, lack of loyalty to your boss, it's because of some disappointment that happened.
 In the same way, it's just as simple as that, in the same way the devil wants us to be disappointed with God and with His Church.
 How does he do it? First, let's talk about the overall, how it was done in the West and in the East, in the former Orthodox countries.
 And then we'll talk about how does he do it on an individual level, on you and me today.
 So, first, in the West, all these societies, they used to be Orthodox at some point, and at that point they were in union with Christ.
 But with centuries, they stepped away, and slowly, slowly they're dragged away into heresies, into some kind of surrogate of Christianity.
 And they lack this mystical, deep mystical union with Christ. That's why many temptations come, and people are more and more dragged by Mammon.
 First, it's the Renaissance, people are excited about all those carnal paintings, and well, it's a long story.
 Then it will be the industrial revolution, production, consumption, increase, earn more, make more money.
 And it's very complicated, it's a very big topic, but slowly, slowly the people were dragged away from this deeper union with Christ.
 And only some social norms, like family, traditional values, they were still preserved till the 20th century.
 And at that point it was just destroyed. It didn't already have no basis behind it, spiritual basis.
 So it was just destroyed with all those revolutions, sexual revolutions and many other things.
 And now we don't have even that, we don't have even those values.
 So now it's a post-Christian society.
 The countries that were traditionally Orthodox, they had this core, a lot of people were in a real union with Christ for centuries.
 And it was not that easy to destroy this link, so they had to go through ethics, and that is the reason why they needed atheism and all those, socialism and all that stuff, is to break people completely away from faith.
 So even the idea of God had to be perverted and erased, and they were replaced, and it was replaced.
 Now you worship the Communist Party and Lenin and all that stuff, and you completely put all your longings for the material stuff, bright future.
 And that is materialist. It is a lot of products and goods and everything will be fine economically.
 And they succeeded in breaking out the society away from God.
 Now post-communist countries were trying to go back, but it's not that easy, and I will explain why.
 And other societies, all the pagan and other societies, also they had some values and they were broken by this 20th century.
 Now they're breaking the Muslim world to be away from whatever they still have, whatever good things they still have.
 And the task is to build the new world that will be grounded on these anti-Christian values, and there is no place for Christ.
 So that's the builders that rejected the stone. That stone became the cornerstone, remember, the words of Christ.
 This stone is Christ himself. If some society, some country, some world order, or family order, it can be any level, it doesn't have Christ as a foundation, it will be the building, will be the Babylon.
 It's going to be against God, it's going to be anti-Christian, and it will collapse at some point.
 And for us to understand how it's done, we need to see these two basic ways the devil and anti-Christ are deceiving people now and pulling them out away from real Christ, even when they hear about it, even when they want to embrace the true faith.
 Well, how do they do that? They do it through two ways. The one way of doing it is to increase the level of consumption.
 Economic growth, and people have, they can afford more, and they can buy more, they see all these goodies, you know, in these shops, okay, and they reach some level of consumption.
 Be it a developed country, a developing country, it doesn't matter. Everywhere it has to grow, it has to become better.
 And at some point, everyone has to understand that if you count on Christ, you will not, he will not guarantee you sustaining this level of consumption, it is not what he gives you.
 So, if you really want to trust him and not trust your boss and your account and your other stuff belonging to this world, you will not get it, okay?
 So, the devil wants you to see that, and that is true, okay? He is true in that, because Christ did not promise to provide you some kind of level of consumption.
 He said you will be ready, you need to be ready to suffer for me and not to enjoy all kinds of goodies, okay?
 So, this will be true, okay? Even though the devil is a liar, but that will be true, and he is using it, he will be using it to make people disappointed, lose their reliance on God.
 And another thing that he is doing is that he is trying to increase all kinds of sin in this world, so that it's everywhere, it's reachable in your computer, in everywhere, everywhere around you, all kinds of sins, okay?
 And especially lust and carnal pleasures. And at some point, he wants you to realize that God, Christ, Church don't provide you, they will not, they will deprive you of these carnal pleasures that you can get if you live without them.
 They don't provide this for you, and so you get disappointed about them, okay? And so you leave, okay? Or your faith becomes cold, okay? You don't really rely, you feel abandoned, you feel abandoned by Christ because he doesn't give you these things and stuff like that.
 So, these two things, some people, well, they want to have marriage, and they also see that the Lord doesn't provide them with the husband or wife that they want, okay? Ideal or not ideal, doesn't give, okay?
 So, they're also getting disappointed. So, this disappointment brings them to this lack of faith, lack of love, lack of trust, and that brings up this central sin.
 And all other sins follow and come over. So, we need to know this strategy of devil and Antichrist, and learn how to love Christ with all our heart, rely upon him, put him above everything else, okay?
 And we see it in the mission practice very often, that when we come to missions in some countries like Philippines or East Timor, many people, they are willing to embrace it, but they think that you will give them something.
 You will give them material support, education abroad, some opportunities, something nice, okay? Then, if you promise it, they follow you, at some point they see that you cannot give whatever they've expected, and they are disappointed, they leave, they betray you, they do all kinds of bad things.
 We've had that experience many times. So, in the beginning, we try to emphasize that don't expect any money, any support, any material stuff from us, okay? We are preaching Christ finished, okay?
 But other missions, very often, they use it, they trick people, they provide, okay, in those poor countries, they provide all kinds of support, help, if you believe, if you follow, okay?
 And as a result, just getting a lot of followers, but at the end, these followers, they are stuck with those ideas about God, but they don't have, they don't have Christ in their line. They are unable to follow him, to love him, because they never really understood what it's all about.
 So, this is also anti-Christian work, because later they are already disappointed with Christ. There is the last chance that they will be excited about the message of the Gospel and salvation.
 So, now let us keep that in mind. Let us keep in mind our own relationship with Christ, that we have to make him a beloved and the source of our reliance and of our cravings, okay, of all our hopes that he is unconditional, even in war, even we lose everything, we lose our own life, we love him, we want to be with him, no matter what, we are ready to sacrifice everything for him.
 And if we have such love, everything else, all those things, everything just goes away, okay, because when we love some person, for example, we also forget about other stuff, okay, we forget about financial problems, forget about many things, okay, we do some crazy things, because we love someone.
 That's the same thing, the same attitude, the same heart that we have to have towards Christ. He should be in the center of our heart, of our life, and that is the only path to salvation.
 May the Lord help us establish, make us firm in our faith, in our following Christ. Amen. God bless.
