 Dear brothers and sisters, we remember in the Genesis, when Adam and Eve sinned, the snake was responsible for deceiving them.
 The Lord said, "I will put enmity between the seed of the snake and the seed of the woman, and the seed of the woman, the sons of men, they will strike,
 smite the head of the snake, and the snake will bite in their foodstool." What does that mean?
 Well, we, material, we are material, we are physical. When we walk, because we are also spiritual, but we are also physical, we have physical body, we exist in this physical world,
 and we have this physical nature, and through this physical body, through this physical nature, through the world that we see, that we feel outside, we are deceived by devil.
 That's why many temptations come through vision, some come through other senses, through all kinds of senses. There are five senses, physical.
 So, it is obvious when we sin, say we have carnal sins, gluttony, lust, something else, material goods, we can steal or do something like that, it is quite obvious, things like that are quite evident.
 But there is a sin, there is a passion that is not as evident. And this passion is vainglory, sometimes called vanity.
 And the problem is that people very often we don't see that we sin in this fashion, this passion, and this sin is smuggled by people into the church.
 Many people are baptized, they become Christians, but they still have those sins, those passions with them, the old values that they had before coming into the church.
 And also they see in the church things that are done by this passion, that's what I want to talk about.
 And they think, well, it's normal, it's the church, but the church as an individual can be sick, individual Christian, the church can be sick also.
 We should not think that the church is just holy, because it's a church. No, the church is holy when it's repenting.
 When we, during the service, we say, Lord have mercy on me, a sinner, we acknowledge that we're sinners, but then we come to the moment, it's the holy gifts for the holy.
 The priest will raise the body of Christ, break, break it, and he will say these words, the holy gifts unto the holy.
 So only if the holy people, they can partake of these holy things. So we are sinners or we are holy, we're saints, what's the real reality?
 The reality is that when we are acknowledging our sins, that's when the Lord considers us saints, because our heart is turned towards Him.
 So the church in the same way, if we, only as a church also, we say, oh, we're so glorious, we're so good, we're so beautiful, everything is fine with us.
 Well, we're risking, because we have vainglory and we don't have the grace of God, the glory of God.
 We have only this man-made glory. We can put many gold stuff and make it seem like we are glorious, but we won't have any glory from God.
 And everything else is nothing if you don't have God's blessing, if you don't serve Him.
 So this is why it's important to see this problem.
 And another reason why this is serious is because we are all children of this Renaissance culture, this European worldview culture, very individualistic.
 I am something, this is my name, blah, blah, blah, and this is my name card, and I'm something important and things like that. And we read the books that are talking about some superheroes.
 We watch movies, they have some superheroes, we have those idols, they're called idols of the movies, those actors, everybody is watching what's happening with them.
 And all of that is individualism. And we think about ourselves, every issue, and every one of us, that I am something special.
 Well, the reality is God doesn't care. He cares about salvation of every soul, but He cares of whether you do His will and not are you something super-pooper.
 Or your personality and stuff like that.
 Okay, the problem, these are the rules of the problem.
 And some examples, again, we go to the church, we think, okay, it's me going to the church, I'm praying to the Lord, then I am today receiving the Holy Kingdom, or I'm not receiving the Holy Kingdom, it's me, Him, me, Him.
 We forget that this is a church. We forget that only as a church we can be united with Him.
 And we are blinded by this super-focus on myself. Who am I?
 Some people are really concerned, okay, what I learned, I've read these books, I've studied and such and such, took some courses, and all of that is also making me special in some way.
 For the Lord is nothing, okay. The Apostle Paul says, "Whoever thinks that he knows something, doesn't know anything the way it should be known."
 So don't ever think that you're knowledgeable about something. You will look like crazy in the eyes of the Lord.
 Another example is our focus on the battle with the passions. We know that there are these eight biggest great passions.
 We know their relationship. This is ascetics, Orthodox ascetics. But some people are over-concerned about these passions.
 Okay, now I have this passion, then I have this passion, I have that passion, I need to overcome.
 And it's also bringing the whole spiritual life focused on myself, that I need to develop growth.
 It's like becoming almost like Buddhist monk, okay, with growth, growth, growth.
 No, for us, the most important, forget about yourself, the Lord said, "Whoever doesn't abandon his soul and follow me, take up his cross and follow me, he will not save his soul."
 So for me, the issue is not just my individual, this little soul that I care about. No, it's do I follow Christ? Do I do what he will, what he wants?
 So we should not focus too much. We should focus on looking at Christ, not looking at myself. Looking at Christ, following him, learning how to love him, changing our heart, our mindset.
 In the level of the whole church, there are also problems like that. For example, some churches, they say, "Okay, it's local church, it's because our people from many centuries have built many monasteries and we have something, something like that."
 And that's why we are something, our church is super strong and very glorious, stuff like that.
 Some people focus like Moscow, the third world, we are Moscow, so other people say, "Oh, we are from ancient apostolic times, we have some apostolic thing."
 These are games of kindergarten, children, babies, while we play these games.
 And then there is this funny quarrel about the diptychs. The diptych is what sequence do these patriarchs follow?
 There are various versions of this sequence and some people say, "Oh, it's number five or number nine."
 Guys, when we are the church of Christ and we are doing things like that, this is jokes.
 The Antichrist is advancing. At the time when we are playing these foolish games, he is advancing and he is taking over countries, nations, many of us deceiving and leaning straight.
 So we need to throw away all this garbage and play games.
 Many people, even priests, they consider what have I done for the church. Have I served five years? I've done this, I've done that, I've published some books, I have done something else, taught some courses.
 It's like a resume. We write in the resume our achievements. The Lord said, "Your left hand does not know what the right hand does."
 Because we don't care, we don't remember. If we've done something good for the church or for the people, we forget about it right away.
 It's not me. The Lord allowed me to participate in this deal. Myself, I'm nothing. I just spoil things.
 So we forget about that. We don't tell anyone about that.
 Me, myself, some achievement. No, forget about it. This is harmful for me.
 I want people to criticize me, to say how dumb, how bad I am. That's when I'm happy because that helps me overcome this vainglory.
 And not the other way around. I have such a big personal ego and I want everybody to think something good about this ego.
 This is not the Lord's glory. And even we have this crazy custom of giving some medals or some achievement marks or some certificates for this achievement, for some prizes.
 A letter of achievement or stuff like that. This is also worldly. This is when church becomes like the secular world. Worldlyization.
 And the Lord said, "You receive the glory from each other, but the glory from the only God you don't accept."
 Because it's contradicting. You either receive from "I glorify you, you glorify me", we go to some place, applauds, and everybody is so glorious, but you don't have the glory from God.
 You're deprived of it. It's one or the other. It cannot be both.
 So that's harming. That's harming the spiritual situation of the church.
 Some people say our parish is so and so. Our church building is old. This is the age and we have some special icons which are from something.
 Our parish or our monastery is so special because some holy person two centuries ago was here and the Lord doesn't care about this. He doesn't care about these things.
 How glorious is the whole church or your parish or monastery. Who is holy in your monastery now? Who is on this path?
 Maybe in the whole country you have two or three people. Like today we celebrate Saint Silvan of Mt. Tafos. It's a very great saint.
 At his time there was a big monastery. He was in a monastery with 5,000 people. But we don't know much about anyone. We know about him because he was holy. He was on this path of following Christ.
 We know about him. And that's what matters to the Lord. That person matters. And everybody else, all this glory, all this stuff that they've done. Not much value.
 So this is what counts. How many of us are on this path?
 It's a cult of personality. We have it even in the lives of some saints.
 These lives were written by people after these saints and these people treated these saints as superheroes.
 This has also the spirit of glory, especially focusing on the personality of this saint. Not only what he's done, why is he a saint.
 But on this personality it's because he is he. This is more about the history of some church figures, some patriarchs, some KOs.
 He was very knowledgeable. He had some education. This is historical stuff. This is also secular stuff.
 We should not be over-obsessed about personality. Nowadays it's the likes that you have. You have more likes, more subscribers or you're cool.
 This is ridiculous. For a Christian, it's important for him to witness, to testimony about Christ.
 And he doesn't care if nobody listens to him. Well, this is sad, but this is the reality.
 He won't be upset that he doesn't have likes or not too many or other guys.
 If we want likes, we do something else. We don't preach about God. We do some crazy stuff and we have millions of likes.
 But this is not our path. Let us be mindful of all these things. Let us feel this virus of this vainglory everywhere around.
 Let us change our mindset that we love people criticizing us, saying that you are nothing. You have no contribution. Glory to God.
 He makes me more humble through such criticism, through his lack of recognition.
 I am so joyful because I want to accumulate treasury in heaven and not to receive glory from this fallen world.
 Let us be like that. Have the mind of Christ and may the Lord be with us. God bless.
