 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about two topics and the connection between them.
 The first is splitting of Church. How is it possible? How is it done? And how it can be done in future?
 And the topic of this New World Order that we are going into.
 Okay. Somebody is trying to push us into the New World Order.
 And why do I talk about this? Because the Church has to carry out its mission.
 It has to do the testimony about true faith in Christ, no matter what kind of social setting, revolution we have.
 No matter. We have to do this. And we need to be prepared, we need to be ready for what is coming.
 Order may be coming. We know what is coming from the revelation and from Christ himself, that there will be a second coming, that there will be an Antichrist before that.
 So, we need to see the signs of time that these things are approaching.
 Okay. And what we can say is that the devil, he wants to split the Church. In the past he was splitting the Church, the Rome split away.
 We have these old rich, old right believers split away from the Russian Church.
 We had some big, some smaller splits. And now we will have a big split coming.
 And we need to think about this now. Because some people are now thinking about Antichrist, Mark of Beast, how do I avoid it, how do I go into the forest and stuff like that.
 But the big problem is not that. The big problem is the split of the Church that is coming.
 And that we need to avoid it. And we need to think about it now. And why is it coming? Where is it coming from?
 In the past we remember all these big changes. The most recent one, we had the Russian Revolution, and a big chunk of the Russian Church was split away.
 It became the Rokhor, the Russian of the Church abroad, because of social change that happened, political social change in the Soviet Union.
 And with the Lord's help we recovered the Union in 2007. But things may not be so nice next time.
 So, we need to think about it now, already. And what is happening in the world right now that we will, I've talked about it before, but just to sum up.
 Devil, he needs to make you slip into a trap. He opens this trap. And then he will close this trap.
 He first needs to give you some power, then later to have power over you. Because you will be addicted to something, and then he controls you.
 That's how he works. That's the trap. "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one."
 The temptation is a trap. And we slip into it. And the whole humanity is now slipping into this trap. We have been sleeping in the past.
 When we have all these revolutions, be it French Revolution, be it the Russian Revolution, Chinese Revolution, any revolution, they bring you the slogan of freedom, equality.
 And then Tyran comes and he kills a lot of people, and then he imposes a new ideology, and he just changes the way people think and live, and many things.
 So, we saw that happening. And if we generalize, we can say that in the past societies were more hierarchical, more patriarchal.
 It was more like a kingdom. And the kingdom of God is also a kingdom. There is respect to the Lord who is above you.
 Now there is no piety. There is no feeling of holiness. There is no feeling of this hierarchical structure. Families are not hierarchical. Corporations become flat. Everybody knows the strength, flattening of corporations.
 All of that because of this temptation. Just be free, be equal. It's the same as temptation. Don't trust authority. Authority is a despot. He is a tyrant.
 And we had that with Adam and Eve, when the devil told him, "Don't trust that God, because he doesn't tell you the truth. I will tell you the truth. You will be free. You will know evil and good, and you will be like God yourself.
 You will have freedom, your own life, not in obedience. You don't need that obedience." Exact same temptation comes every time there is this big revolution happening that's flattening society, breaking up all this.
 We don't have any aristocracy now. We don't have any real royal structure, because we're just guys and girls. It's all mass culture, mass media. Very practical, very down to earth.
 Everybody, you can buy everything, you can sell. Family is just partnership. It becomes very flat, very profane. And people don't have any interest in holy and sacred on a general level.
 That happened as a result of this trap. People were entrapped by a devil. In the past it was on local levels. In different countries we have these different revolutions. What is happening now is on global level.
 On that level, we can see what happened later to understand what's going to happen also now on the global level. On the local level, when that happened, later it was the general population that entered into this new form of relationship, this new social contract.
 Name it that way. And there was the elite that controlled everything, all of it. And there were marginal people who were gays. They were either put in prison, a concentration camp, or marginalized in society, in ghettos, or somewhere else, or sent away to other countries.
 So, there is always these three types of people. And the same is going to happen this time. This is what they want. If you remember the movie Demolition, or Destroyer, or something like that, with Sylvester Stallone, 1993.
 You can take a look. It's an almost 30-year-old movie, but it's talking about the future, which is what they are trying to make right now.
 I won't tell you details if you're interested in taking a look, but many of those anti-utopian movies and books are about that. It's different variations, but the idea we can see.
 And what is the central idea is that the majority of people who will embrace all of those things, they will embrace regular vaccination, all the rules, all the smart city that controls where you are, your face, all the electronic money, and maybe chips, maybe something.
 The details are not important, but it's going to have its own rules, and they know exactly what they want, because they were planning this for decades, over 50 years, especially for this.
 And there will be the elite that doesn't care. Like now, we have those parties in the States where they don't wear masks. Because they are elite, they don't obey those rules, and nobody cares, and nobody has to explain anything.
 And it's very few people, and you never get there to be one of them. And if you get there, you have a special mind. You wouldn't be listening to this video.
 And there will be also marginalized people who will be either deprived of all rights, no education, no medicine, no sources of support, no job, no status, just really marginalized.
 Like third-world countries is something similar. People die of hunger, and stuff like that. They were marginalized even earlier. If you want to see how it looks like, you can see it there.
 And then, later, these will be the people that want to decide themselves what they want to do, do they want vaccination, do they don't want it, what kind of things they read, where they go, they don't want to be traced and tracked everywhere they go, they don't want to live according to those rules.
 So those people will be marginalized, and really maybe dead. Now these movies and games that they make, they also have zombies that you need to kill them.
 Those are the anti-vaxxers. If you need an explanation, that's the explanation. These are the anti-vaxxers and the way the general society needs to look at them as they hate humanity, they don't want to obey the rules, they are harmful, they are bad guys.
 So we will have that. And the question is where the church is going to be. I mean, it's going to be either that or this.
 It's going to be either with the majority that's going to be accepting those rules and serving those rulers, the elite higher class, which is going to be really creepy.
 And it's going to be this marginal view. Where the church is going to be. And I'm telling you, the church is going to be split. If that happens, if this stratification, this caste system is taking place, the church is going to be split.
 And we don't know where the real church is going to be now. And you'll say, no, it's impossible. Well, some days people thought that Rome split away, it's impossible. Or something else split away, part of the Russian church split away, it's impossible.
 It was possible, it happened. So this is also quite possible. And this is the true adventure. In the time of, it was before the revolution, people were worried about many things.
 There was this trend in monasteries of the name Glory. There was in Russia building huge cathedrals and everybody was concerned about that.
 But just a few years later, everything just demolished and destroyed. They were worried about priests having some medals and stuff.
 Then there was no priest, just killed everybody. So no need for medals anymore because there is no priest but he's killed.
 Because people were thinking about something else, not the right thing.
 So now also when we think about what is the problem, what is the real danger that can happen in near future to the church, to our ministry, this is one of them.
 This split that can happen is one of them. And you'll ask me what can I do as a Christian. First what we need to do is to be above this split.
 We should not participate in this promotion of this hatred or your anti-vaxxer or your vaxxer or your whatever.
 You should not participate in that fight that is happening.
 We need to be above that because for us we need to be with the people, we need to unite people, we need to teach them about sacrifice, self-sacrifice with our example.
 We need to be ready to not accept the new order if they're going to impose it. We will do everything to make it not happen, that this will not happen.
 And what they want is they will push this as long as needed. Now we're entering third winter already. It's going to be the third winter of this fancy sickness.
 And it's not going to be the last winter, it's going to go on as long as it takes to bring that new system into place.
 So our task is to not make it happen. This plan doesn't work. Then they go according to some other plan.
 And the Lord will help us in achieving this. So not because we're against technology or against the future, it's because we want to have testimony done well of the church.
 Not for the church to be split apart, not for the church to be marginalized in some ghetto, to be able to speak freely and to do the testimony for our Lord.
 May the Lord help us, give us wisdom, strengthen our faith, give us patience, unite us, unite our hearts, and give us victory over all adversaries. I mean, God bless.
