 Dear brothers and sisters, when we decide to follow Christ, we need to change our whole mind.
 And it's not just a matter of believing some content. Believe not this, I believe this.
 It is a matter of completely changing the mindset, the heart, everything.
 Because why in the Old Testament we had almost all the Israel worship other gods?
 Why did they not want just to stick to one true religion that they received?
 Why we have these splits in Christianity that people don't want to stay in one apostolic church?
 And why we as Christians, as Orthodox Christians, always have frustration, all kinds of problems with our faith?
 Why does this happen? Overall we see paganization of Christianity, that's what I call it.
 That it has the form of Christianity, but the mind and everything is different, it's already not Christian.
 So today I want to discuss one thing that slips our attention very often.
 That all of us are gradually, step by step, we are paganized.
 We used to be pagans, but now, having become Christians, we are still being paganized more and more, like on a daily basis.
 That's human nature, that's fallen human nature, and this fallen world in which we live.
 And what do I mean by this?
 There is a phrase in Psalms that the meaning is "a horse will fail to save you".
 In ancient times people were riding on horses and fighting on horses.
 And to have a horse meant to have greater speed, to have dominance over your enemy, because you're higher, you're faster, you're stronger when you're on a horse.
 So this means that this power, additional strength, vigor, something that everyone relies upon, will not save you.
 And we need to think deeply, what do we rely on in our life? Because what we rely on on our daily basis, daily life, is financial strength, my connections with people who can help me.
 My knowledge, knowledge is power. My diplomas, my resume that I have, we rely health-wise, healthy lifestyle, healthy food that will give us health, exercise.
 Some people also rely on some higher powers. If it's a Christian, he may think that some higher powers make him chosen, and that's why he will win all the time and stuff like that.
 People who are not Christian will believe in astrology, in occultism, Buddhism, meditation, numerology and all kinds of stuff.
 But these are some super powers. Now people also believe in auto-training, psychology, how to win friends, how to persuade people, how to do this and that, how to become powerful, all that stuff.
 So all of that are these external powers that are fake, that will not give you salvation. At the end of the day, what will matter is whether God is with you or he is not.
 It will be the sanction of God to either give you victory or not. And if he doesn't give you victory in this world, you are killed or conquered.
 That means that he will give you victory in the world that is eternal, that is to come. And we need to have this trust.
 There are two things we can think of in this context. One thing is our dialogue with other religions and people. The communist will tell you, "Your God will not save you. You have this feudalism, all this ancient stuff."
 We are communists, we have power, we have science, we have factories and stuff like that. We go to space and your God doesn't give you all of that.
 And the capitalist world will tell you, "Well, you see, we have prosperity, we have rich everything, we have products, goods and economic growth is going on. Your God, what does he give you?"
 When everybody was a Christian, the world was black and all this new technology, dirty and stuff like that. So it doesn't give you, it doesn't save you. Your God doesn't save you.
 And in the Psalms we see that crazy people will say, "There is no salvation in your God. Your God doesn't save you."
 And that was why people in the Old Testament failed to be loyal to God. They went to other religions, they saw prosperity and they worshipped those gods to give them similar prosperity.
 And some think the army, you have a strong army, that means we will all win. Other think the economy should be stronger, industry, science. People rely on any kind of stuff.
 But this is in our dialogue with other people, with pagans, with communists, with modern occultists, agnostic, neo-pagans.
 This new age stuff, which they could tell you, "You see, we do meditation and we can relax and we have healthy lifestyle, we eat carrots and you see how we are so healthy, but you are fat and you are sick and you are with your God. So why should I believe in your God?"
 We need to talk with people like that, but first of all we need to talk with ourselves. Because the problem is that we have the mind that is pagan.
 We can ask ourselves, "What do I do when I feel lonely or when I face some big trouble? I have no money, no job, I'm stuck, no future." Or when I have some other kind of frustration, some danger.
 Or when I have sickness, when I'm sick, when my people around me die, my blood. What do I do? What is my refuge? Do I go at that time and pray all night or I just go and drink all night or go party or all my friends and try to talk with them so I don't feel so worried?
 What is my behavior? What happens with me when I'm tested? Because the Lord says, "I will test your hearts." And He is the one who is testing us. And these trials and tests will be harder and harder, closer to the end of times.
 We're now facing super tough times for the church and for the Christian faith.
 So here we are coming down to the fundamental principle that makes true Christian faith different from all other revisions, including heresies, that find some substitute.
 And that makes people more comfortable because it's a substitute.
 Just to be like that unconditionally, rely on living God. Just trust Him, trust His Word. Go on the waters, walk on the waters, as Peter did. No, sorry, it's too dangerous, it's too risky, no.
 And people find refuge in all those practices, religions and all that stuff.
 And eventually all of that will be united in one anti-Christian religion, because it's got this anti-Christian principle in it already. Every single one of those things, religions, philosophies, ways of living, all of them in a different shape, but it's the same.
 And this is the fundamental principle. What do you rely upon? What is your salvation? Are you able to fully entrust yourself to God?
 And does your lifestyle and your inner world correspond to this? Are you able to be tested so much and not fail? Because the Lord is testing, testing, and here we fail. There is the rusty, the spoil part in us.
 And can we fix it? Or it's going to get more and more spoil. Okay, so let us abandon any reliance on whatever external things, as the Apostle Paul says.
 For me, the world is crucified and I'm for the world. It's crucified, meaning that I have no reliance on this world. I have no attachment. All those temptations, desires that are coming, the Lord said, the temptations will come and woe to the world because of these temptations.
 They will seduce people and spoil them. So we have no attraction to those things. We need to cut out all these attractions, all the reliance, anything.
 Tomorrow I lose everything, all my properties, my house, my life, everything. And everything is going to be fine because I will trust in God. I will put my whole trust in Him, especially when I am sick, especially when I lose my job.
 That's when I am closest to the Lord and my heart is full with the Lord and I have no fear. Only fear of God Almighty. Let us all aim for such a heart. Let us all do hard work, spiritual struggle to reach such a state of mind.
 That will mean that we are following Christ, that we are Christians. And not that we believe this and that and we know all the dogmas and all the ecumenical counsels and whatnot.
 May the Lord help us give us the right orientation. Our orientation in life is another thing to think of. What am I counting on in my life?
 Am I building more savings? That's my main goal behind all my job and everything I do. I have more savings to save for future, to save for pension and then it will be fine.
 I will have a happy life at some point. Is this the whole motivation of my life? Or am I motivated by a healthy diet and lifestyle and sports and stuff like that so that I will live 150 years?
 That's my motivation and what guides me. Or something else. I'm learning, I want to know more and more so that I'm super wise and smart.
 Some hobbies. What is the purpose of my life? What is the fundamental driving force behind what I do every day?
 And we'll discover that it's not Christ. It's not salvation. It's not the Kingdom of Heaven. And this is where we are still in paganism.
 Let us change day by day. Cut out all these things. Overcome worldly logic. Because the worldly logic will give us all these concepts. I trust in my paycheck and all other stuff.
 Let us be crazy for Christ. Because we trust Him. We're fundamentals. We trust His Word unconditionally. And this is what we do. This is what makes us His children.
 May the Lord help us and give us His blessing. Amen.
