 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord told us to be awake.
 And to be awake means to be spiritually vigilant, to pray, to control our passions, to avoid temptations.
 And also it means to understand what is going on in this world that we live in.
 So that we can fight with the devil and with all the evil that there is.
 And can carry out our testimony better, our Christian mission.
 So today I want to say about what is going on in this world now.
 And the situation is like this for about over 100 years already.
 And the situation changed dramatically from the 18th and early 19th century.
 What kind of world do we live in right now? How different is it from what we had in the past?
 Well, we can see some external physical change.
 We have technology, communication, science, we have development of all kinds of travel and phones and all other stuff like that.
 Economy has grown significantly. People can buy, consume more than they used to.
 So there seems to be that kind of development.
 But at the same time we see, especially now, that moral values are deteriorating.
 We can see it everywhere.
 We see that family is being destroyed. Those divorces are getting more and more often, happen more often.
 People live without marriage. Children are without parents, thrown away more than ever before.
 We have such a great difference between wealthy countries, poor countries.
 Within the wealthy countries there is also a great difference. Some people live in ghettos.
 We have a lot of unhealthy phenomena going on.
 We see that culture is perishing.
 We used to have so many composers, poets, writers. How many do we have now?
 People were making folk songs. It was culture in the people. Now we don't have people.
 We have atomized individuals and everybody is in the social network chatting.
 It's a different world, different lifestyle. And it is quite spiritually deprived, very poor.
 Why is it like this?
 One of the reasons is that the devil is trying to pull away the majority of people from the plan of God.
 We need to notice that many saints, very special people, people who followed Christ,
 they were quite different even before they began to follow Christ.
 Not counting some fishermen who became apostles. We don't know what kind of people they used to.
 They should have been different. That's why they were called by Christ.
 Not many others were around, but only those.
 But we don't know how different they were.
 But there were also all those prostitutes, former prostitutes, all those people who were marginal,
 who were not regular people, we can say.
 The early Christians, they were all the, even the post-apostas, we are garbage of this world.
 Because even before they became Christians, many people were garbage of this world.
 They were marginal, poor orphans, people deprived, or some health issues.
 But most importantly, they were marginalized, or they marginalized themselves.
 Even apostle Paul himself, he was this great prosecutor of the church.
 And eventually he became the apostle. He was very special even before he became apostle.
 So they are not the mass, usually, not always, but usually those very bright Christians, those saints that we call.
 They are some kind of special case. They are not normal, usual people.
 And not always, but most of the time.
 And also the great evildoers, those bad guys, Hitler, Napoleon, many others, geniuses.
 They were perverts, they were maniacs, and they were also not regular people.
 They also were out from the regular mass of people.
 So, we can summarize. Some people, they know, they consciously serve the Lord.
 They want to be with Christ. For them, this is the goal of their life.
 They do missions, they do many things.
 For some people, on the other hand, they do the opposite. They serve a demon, they serve Satan.
 Consciously or subconsciously, they have their own ideas, but basically these are all serving their selfishness and eventually serving the demon.
 And sometimes we call them antichrists, plural.
 These people who bring most suffering to the whole of humanity.
 And very often they become the rulers, they become the leaders and so on.
 Majority of people, they used to, before this change, before 150 years ago or even more.
 And for all those centuries, thousands of years, they were basically in some paradigm of following God.
 Of doing God's will, generally speaking.
 Those people, they don't have their own idea, they follow.
 They are followers, they are not leaders, even though maybe they lead some company or some enterprise.
 Basically they are following the trend. Everybody is doing that, I do that. Everybody is baking bread, I make bread and do like this.
 Everybody has a strong family, they don't throw away their wives. I do the same, I don't do...
 Of course, every country, every age had many sins. There were many sins. Stealing, cheating and other things in these people, in these masses.
 So they were not holy people. But basically, generally speaking, the whole trend was more pleasing to God than it is now.
 So the situation that happens, there was always this competition.
 God is leading them to some other, to some good goal. Devil trying to pull them away.
 So this didn't happen overnight, of course. This was prepared by Devil throughout centuries.
 But eventually, it was a breaking point, it was a great success by Devil in pulling away these people, these masses, this general public from following Christ to doing what he wants.
 He wants to become their master.
 And all these revolutions that we had, this is a good example, liberation, freedom, we give you equality, you will be your own lords, you will be like God.
 That's the first temptation of Saturn in the paradise to Adam and Eve.
 You will be free, you will be knowledgeable, you will be everything, we'll give you education, we'll give you opportunities, we'll give you prosperity, give you everything.
 Just don't obey to any authority, monarch or some other authority, just democracy.
 But this doesn't work. And when people were deceived by these calls of liberalism, these calls of democracy, they abandoned God, they don't want God.
 They don't, well, not that every ruler is representing God.
 And most rulers, they were not very holy people, but the whole system, they were not controlling everything.
 Because every ruler had only his lifespan, usually, to control, a few years only, to do his policies.
 Then there was another one, who was doing completely different policies.
 So they were unable to make great big changes, usually.
 They did not have media, like we have now.
 They did not have a school, public education for everybody, to brainwash everyone.
 They didn't have that.
 They didn't have those instruments of control and brainwashing of every person.
 They didn't have the concentration camps to put everybody into prison, half of the population into prison.
 All of that, they didn't have that.
 But modern times we have it.
 So we also call some of them Antichrists, those former rulers.
 But those Antichrists, they were handicapped, they could not do much.
 Yes, they could do some persecution in the church, but that was quite temporary, it was limited.
 And it ended, eventually.
 It was not that systematic and long ongoing.
 So, also those Antichrists, they were not in such a close connection with the devil, receiving his messages.
 As the occult, these crazy maniacs, they tried to gain control of the power.
 Now, they are better instruments of demons than those former ancient Antichrists.
 So those ancient Antichrists, they could not change their family values.
 They didn't have movies to educate people about free love and all this stuff.
 So they could not destroy the culture altogether.
 They could not destroy families and religion altogether.
 They could not do that. They could not make everybody just serve their belly.
 So basically what happened is humanity was walking, was more spiritual.
 Now it fell down on the belly like a snake.
 Why the devil is a snake? He also moves on the belly and eats filthy stuff.
 You can read it in Genesis chapter 3.
 So he also wants people to live only on their belly.
 So now people worry only about how to make money, buy stuff, pay bills, consume, enjoy.
 And everything is related to material life, consumption, and the good utility that he can get from consuming and buying material stuff.
 He doesn't really care about the spiritual.
 So that's why we don't have the culture.
 We don't have any more of this spiritual component to our life.
 And how is the devil doing this?
 How is he able to succeed so much?
 He is doing it through trends.
 He creates a trend.
 Now everybody needs to do this kind of dance.
 Now everybody needs to wear jeans.
 Now everybody is doing something else.
 So everybody follows.
 Now everybody has to go digital.
 Everybody gets digital.
 If you don't learn these new programs, these apps, you won't digitalize, your company is not digital.
 You will be thrown away from the market.
 You will be thrown away from the life.
 You are a retrograde. You are some ancient archaeological artifact.
 You will die out.
 So he is either persuading you that this is great, this delusion that you love this trend, or he is scaring you.
 He is using fear.
 If you don't follow this trend, you will die.
 You will be thrown away.
 You will be marginalized.
 So people, some they really want to follow what they are following, others they have to follow because otherwise they have a problem.
 So he is using these trends to pull the people in the way that he wants them to go.
 This is why for us, the first thing that we need to do is to be able to get out of trend.
 To be spiritually free from trend.
 Everybody is doing the Facebook.
 Well, I won't be that much in the Facebook, maybe I use it, but I always keep a different distance.
 I don't just immerse myself in it.
 And another thing that he does to succeed is he is making people influence each other.
 We are all social people.
 So we get this in the school, in the society, and he is using that.
 So his plan is he has a very great ambition.
 It is like a company that is controlling the market and now another company comes and wants to grasp the whole market.
 And this is what is happening during this last 150 years.
 He is trying to grasp the market.
 All these people who were not really conscious.
 Of course he is trying to seduce those who are consciously following Christ.
 But his big goal also is to get all of this and others will follow because everybody is going to be there.
 So this is what is happening during this past 150 years.
 Roughly. Generalizing.
 And the method he is using is called Trotskyism.
 He said that we need a perpetual revolution, an ongoing revolution.
 And the devil is a revolutionary.
 He always tells us, no, what we have now is not good.
 We need something else, a better thing.
 Breaking what we have, liberating, getting into something else.
 Because what is this revolution is against God.
 He wants everybody to object, to get away from God.
 And the Lord says, well, you don't want me, it's your choice.
 He is trying to keep people.
 Why do we have all these tsunamis and earthquakes and stuff?
 Because the Lord wants people to repent.
 He allows these things to happen.
 Viruses, he allows these things to happen.
 So people repent, they come back to him.
 And some do. Some find out that they were wrong.
 But the whole process is also a struggle going on.
 The whole process is the devil is trying to make people revolt against God on different levels.
 The way they think, the way they behave, the way they have families.
 In every way he is trying to pull them out, step by step.
 Different aspects of human life, to entrap them more and more in his own way of kingdom.
 His kingdom of Antichrist, he is trying to make it.
 He is like a monkey of God.
 He says, why should we be under God?
 We can have our own kingdom and I will be the boss and you will be my subjects.
 And the Lord is in the parable of the debtor who comes.
 He says, I don't have anything to give you back.
 And the Lord tells him, sell him, his wife, his children, his property and bring me as much as you can return.
 Sell him means give him over to another Lord, another master.
 And another master is Satan.
 So this liberation is not liberating from God and you are free.
 No, you will eventually have to become slave of the devil.
 You will serve Mammon.
 And this is what's happening now, big time, big scale.
 We need to understand what's happening.
 We need to see this in our people around us, in ourselves.
 Not to be part of this, not to lose this battle, on the other hand, to destroy the devil in ourselves, in his influence in this world.
 And to find Christ, that everyone can serve him better consciously, not unconsciously.
 Consciously find the Lord, his salvation and follow him. May the Lord help us, give us this heart, strengthen our faith.
 Help us kill this Leviathan inside us and with our passions, with our old men, our selfishness.
 And to teach us his wisdom, his humbleness and his holiness.
 I mean, God bless.
