 Dear brothers and sisters, I often talk about this world slipping into the laws of Devil,
 and one of the reasons why this happens is because we forget about very important spiritual principles about silence.
 Because Devil is depicted as a snake, and the snake whispers, and its whisper is trying to tell us something.
 But the most important thing is distracting us from following Christ, from hearing God's voice, from doing what is right.
 And this brought the fall of the first humans, and this brings all the things that happened.
 And this whisper is what we hear all the time, all day long.
 From the morning to night, we hear radio, we hear ads, we listen to music all the time,
 we go to our apps and we listen to many things like YouTube and stuff like that.
 And eventually, we think that we save our time, our thinking, "Oh, I'm listening, I'm learning so much."
 In fact, the more we know, we make ourselves filled with stuff that is not necessary, we don't need it.
 And the true treasures, spiritual, are not growing, the seed is not growing, these thorns come.
 So, today I want to say a few words about this. How can we manage this problem?
 Well, first of all, we need to really discover that we have this problem.
 We can try going to the forest and just staying in silence.
 And very often, most people would feel that there is this noise coming from them.
 There is all kinds of thoughts and images and all kinds of stuff going on.
 That means that we are unable to have this silence in our heart.
 Even though there is silence outside, we are filled with all kinds of noise.
 Our conscious, subconscious, everything is filled, our heart is filled with all kinds of stuff.
 When we try to pray, we also want to count down, to focus on the words, but there is this noise coming out.
 So, we need to discover that this is a problem.
 When we go drive a car, we always turn on some music, we cannot do without it.
 This means addiction, it's not healthy, we don't want to just keep silent and listen to God.
 Think about God praying, we don't want, we want this entertainment.
 This is hell, actually, this is what hell is like.
 All kinds of noise and there is no God there.
 We feel that there is no God.
 At camping, we need to fill it with some pleasant music.
 When people talk, very often they cannot stop.
 If there is silence, people get nervous, something is wrong.
 We need to spit spit spit, no matter what they say.
 This shows us this sick situation that we are in.
 And these ads that we see, we can see the nature everywhere, even YouTube.
 We watch something and then it pops out and something happens.
 Usually it's trying to distract us, to attract attention to what's happening.
 Some movements, some effects, sound effects.
 They are trying to distract us.
 They want to promote some stuff, they want you to think about that.
 And that's what the devil is doing, trying to distract us.
 Many saints, they found God in the forest.
 Many people found faith when they were in the nature, looking at the sky, at the sea.
 They felt God's presence and felt his voice.
 And they discovered faith, not when they are running around all day long, day by day.
 And the whole life finishes, all of a sudden.
 Many saints, when they wanted to be with God, they also withdrew from towns, from villages.
 And they've settled in some forests, in some deserts.
 And there they've done spiritual warfare.
 We know that our spiritual eyes are closed, our spiritual ears are closed.
 There is a very interesting controversy.
 The logic of spiritual life is often contrary.
 It contradicts the logic of regular common sense or normal beliefs that there are.
 For example, we think that if we sleep well, we had a good night's sleep, then we are good, we are good to go.
 We are empowered to do many things.
 Well, we will be actually spiritually asleep.
 We will be sleeping spiritually, if we, every time, have a good sleep.
 And this is a little bit, for us, not very evident, but that's what happens.
 That's why many saints, they prayed at night.
 And the Lord himself, he went and prayed all night.
 And in Luke 6, 12, and in Mark, he also prayed early morning, he woke up.
 That's the time when it's silence.
 And that's the time when he would talk to God.
 So, and in monasteries, even now, people, monks, they don't sleep that long.
 They sleep maybe two or three hours, then they pray.
 Maybe there is a little, like an apple, like a half hour.
 So, there is no big, nice, eight, ten hour sleep, or something like that.
 So, well, more evident things is like food.
 We think that we eat a lot, and then we will have power, we will have meat, we have this, then we will have power to do many things.
 Well, maybe we can, I don't know, build a house or something.
 But we won't, usually we want to get asleep.
 We know that when we eat well, we're full, we want to go to bed, or maybe relax, lie down, lay down.
 That's a common thing.
 And when we eat a few stuff, when we control what we eat, we actually will have more energy.
 And we have more spiritual vigilance.
 We can think more about spiritual stuff, that's why we're fast.
 When we look a lot, watch videos, some people watch many videos all the time.
 Every day, a few of them.
 Or play these games, watch a lot of visual stuff.
 We get spiritual eyes that we don't see.
 They're blocked, because we see too much images.
 We're blocking.
 When we listen to things all the time, radio, lectures, music, we don't hear God's voice.
 Same logic.
 When we speak too much, we have conversations every day.
 We cannot say anything to God.
 This controversy, we speak a lot physically, but spiritually we become dumb, we become unable to say things.
 So, this is a very interesting observation.
 Of course, it doesn't mean that we need not to eat at all, not to watch any movies at all.
 Not to talk to people at all, unless we're super monks or something.
 But the Holy Father St. Augustine is telling us, for example, that we need to have a brittle, like a horse.
 Our spiritual life-self is like a horse.
 And we need to control our body, our desires.
 And we need to know when to pull, when to release.
 And then we will train this horse, we will tame the horse.
 Otherwise, it's going to be like crazy, wild, running around, throwing out us.
 We cannot control.
 And that's what's happening with us.
 That's why we're now running all this herd of pigs, swine, that were running to those persipines and all of them dying.
 That's what's happening with the world now.
 That's why we need these vigilance.
 To be vigilant, we need to be able to have full control of our internal world.
 If we decide something, we do it.
 If we pray, we say something to God, we really say it with our heart.
 This is very important if we want to be soldiers of Christ.
 We are now very earthly and we are dragged by what's happening in this earth.
 We need to have more spiritual self-control.
 Many people now think about going away from civilization.
 Well, this is just thoughts, but in reality most people are coming to cities.
 And they want to have a higher salary, have more opportunities.
 Well, the more opportunities you have in this world, the less opportunities maybe you'll have in the world to come.
 The more knowledge you receive in this world, maybe the less knowledge about God you know.
 We know that many uneducated people, peasants, spiritual people, they know much more.
 They have greater wisdom, even about earthly things, and more so even about spiritual things.
 So, I'm not saying no need for education, no, but we need to know how to filter out unnecessary stuff.
 Okay, let's read the Gospel of Matthew.
 When the second coming is going to come, what is it going to be like?
 And we'll see that this is what's happening in our world now.
 Matthew 24 verse 36 to 39.
 "But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only.
 But as the day of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
 For as in the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage,
 until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and knew not until the flood came and took them all away,
 so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be."
 Everybody is going to be marrying and building houses and sending rockets into space and building some other things,
 hyper-loops, and doing all kinds of projects, but all of a sudden all of that is gone, it's burned.
 There is this phrase also in the Bible that when this will happen, this world, this earth, and all the deeds on it are going to be burned away.
 This also tells us that these deeds, these are projects, all kinds of projects, it's going to be just burned, finished.
 That's going to be why? Why? Because it's all empty, it has no value in God's eyes, and we need to look for what does have value in God's eyes,
 how to live according to His will, and so few people think about it.
 So, let us be knowledgeable, let us be able to have this silence, to have this silent prayer, this very Issichas.
 This is a very important tradition in the Orthodox Church of Silent Prayer.
 When our heart is silent, and we even don't need to say words, and our heart speaks to God.
 Let us think about this, and have a good protection, vaccination against the spirit of this world that is trying to fill us with all kinds of noise.
 Amen. May the Lord help you, and bless you. Amen.
