 Dear brothers and sisters, today again I'm in Kaohsiung, in the big city in the south of Taiwan, and today I want to share with you on faith.
 I want to share with you what is the greatest aim for every one of us, that we are losing focus very often.
 Just yesterday we had the parable of the sewer. He saw the seed and it's falling on different types of ground and not bearing fruit.
 Whenever it falls on some ground, which is not good ground, it's not bearing fruit.
 And we see that only in the last case, when it's falling on a good ground, it can bring fruit 30 and 60 and 90.
 And all of us, we've heard of this parable many times and it seems to be so clear.
 The Lord himself explained this parable, so there is no need for extra explanation.
 But it is important to think of how does this apply to our daily life.
 And in our daily life we see that we are still far away. We're still far away from growing this seed.
 We're distracted by all kinds of things. We are worried about so many things and we're afraid of many things that can happen in our lives.
 We have stress, we have depression, we have a strong will for some things, to buy something or to get into a relationship or something like that.
 We are very far away from growing in the love of Christ.
 And this happens because of the world that we live in, which is full of deceit, which is full of passions, and we become part of the generation that we're in.
 And these generations, their mindset is shaped so that they have similar values, even though it seems to be so individualistic, that everybody is so free and so independent.
 But in fact, people, they are divided in different types of gay strata and the marketologists, they know very well what kind of person, what kind of gay market they want to target.
 Students, they are thinking this way. Mothers, they think this way. Elder people think that way. They know very well. And this is why sociology became one of the main instruments of Antichrist.
 Because while not able to create full control of every individual person, he succeeded to the large extent of creating those trends. There are different trends.
 And we become part of these trends. And for us to overcome any deceit, the key is to learn how to love Christ with all our heart.
 And all the saints that we know, they are always falling out from the paradigm of their society, even though some of those societies were supposedly Christian and even Orthodox.
 But we always find that those people whom the church has recognized as saints, they are always, it's not the majority, it's not like everybody, they always find, there's something very strange about them.
 And this weirdness of them is what we call that the seed of the Word of God has sprung, has blossomed and brought fruit.
 So, we need to be ready and we need to make this the goal of our life to become firm in this path to salvation in our daily sanctity, daily search for becoming close to Christ, to becoming saints and others around us, our relatives.
 As long as some of them, usually it's all of them, and us including, are not on this path, we are not going to get relaxed.
 Oh, everything is fine, just going to the plan the God provides and things like that. No, we are in the war, in the spiritual warfare that is going on.
 And the first to begin with is us ourselves. And if we can drop out from those paradigms, then just us, just one person can play a great role for the whole society, for the whole world.
 That is a matter of fact, because usually we think, oh, it's big trends and big corporations, they have resources, they control the media and they have the power, they have inputs. It's all nothing.
 It's all nothing. Whenever you step on this path of sanctity, this path of learning to love Christ with our whole heart,
 we can understand that it's very few individuals that can make a change and including us who are on this path.
 And the more firm we are on this path, the greater outcome can be.
 So let us think deeply. What is wrong with me? Why am I so much distracted by my passions, by other things? Both of these value schemes that I have,
 I need to break away from these values that are imposed on me with education, with society, with my family, that I need to earn more.
 I need to buy this. I need to afford this. I need to have comfort. I need to have that, that, that. I need to go on vacation once a month and all other things.
 It's a bunch of things, commands, log algorithms that are in my head. I need to get rid of those algorithms.
 The Lord, He said, blessed are those who mourn. Why mourn? And why, Apostle Paul tells us, be joyful, exceedingly glad, be happy.
 Well, this goes together hand in hand. We mourn because we see in ourselves how far we are from Christ.
 And we see in others, in people around us, that they all have wrong values.
 They are wasting their lives. They are harming themselves. They are destroying their future.
 We can see that clearly. And we mourn because of that. We mourn that the whole of humanity now is so weak, it's so corrupted with its will, desiring all those crazy things, also wasting their lives.
 We pray for them. We have compassion for them. And we are happy because we feel the resurrection, the power of Christ that's working in us and that is saving us, putting us on the right track, giving us light, giving us motivation.
 And we are also, the more we love Christ, like the early Christians, they were thinking, they were drawing fish everywhere. They were thinking, well, they were in love with Christ.
 And it was not a romantic love. This was a very true, authentic, very healthy life, love. And they shared this love with everybody else. And they've undergone so much suffering.
 The sorrows that we have, they are the temptations that make us grow deeper in faith. This depth, the second case with these seeds, they fell on the rocky ground and there was no depth of the ground.
 This depth is the amount of sorrows that we can withstand. And usually every day we fail. Even a small little temptation comes and we fail and we betray Christ. We do some sins or we fall into some sorrow and not coming from God.
 There is a sorrow coming from God that brings repentance and there is sorrow that comes from the devil or from our flesh that has this taste of death and that makes us gloomy, makes us negative, depressed and so on.
 So, we should be able to grow deep, to make the ground of the soil of our heart deeper, to be able to withstand bigger challenges, bigger temptations.
 Because the Lord said, "Whomever I love, whomever I receive as son, I will be beating him." He will be beating us and he does beat us with those sorrows because he cares about us. This is a good thing, good sign. He has hope in us.
 So, we need to be ready for those sorrows and we feel how they make us better and we get closer to Christ through this daily sacrifice that we do, daily breaking away with the old self and forgetting our soul to gain our soul, to gain true life.
 And breaking away those idols that we have in terms of desires, all those things that I've mentioned, all these goals that we have.
 So, this is the main goal of our life, the main problem that we should have. Why I don't love Christ? What does it mean? How I make myself love Christ?
 He says, Apostle Paul tells us that you are bought with a great price. Don't become slaves of men. Don't put on yourself so many debt to buy those properties, cars and stuff like that.
 Don't be too much relying on things, on internet or on anything, because at some point that would be the source of controlling everyone.
 So, let us really make this a task. Understand how difficult it is, even in the good times, in the Orthodox countries where majority people were Orthodox and everywhere you could have a prayer and so much resources, it was a very good time.
 But even at that time, it was a very few, very small minority, and now it is even much smaller and much more difficult to walk this path.
 Let us get firmer and firmer on this path and make this T-goal the target for every day, to clean myself from all wrong ideas, from all desires, to not have those dark temptations overcome me, make a nest in my heart.
 I just throw this away, all those nests, all those things, and that will make the ground of my heart be able to grow the seed of the Word of God.
 May the Lord help us, give us his joy, give us his help, strengthen our faith and enlighten us and kindle this fire of faith in our hearts, I mean, and give us the joy of his salvation, I mean.
