 Dear brothers and sisters, what does it mean to be in Christ? To communicate with Christ? To be united with God?
 This is a goal of our Christian life, but very often we don't have any experience like that.
 And it becomes like nice words, but nothing more.
 We read in a postal poll that he says "It's not me who lives, it's Christ living in me".
 And very often he is saying "You can do this or that, but in Christ".
 What does it mean? Is it just nice words? Well, for him it was very concrete and clear experience.
 And we sometimes think "Well, it's for prophets, it's for some visionaries, some mystics".
 Today I will not talk about mysticism and something that is like a real rare experience.
 But I want to talk about the experience that we as Christians should gain on a daily basis.
 And this experience will reinforce our faith, because our goal is faithful to trust in the Lord.
 But if we don't... Say we have contract with somebody, but we don't hear from the other party for many years, anything.
 Do we have trust in that guy? Well, usually no.
 In the same way, when we think "Well, God, yes, he is somewhere out there, I hope I can get salvation one day,
 but on my daily life it's just me, I'm just struggling, hopefully he can help me in some projects that I do".
 But basically it's me and I'm running around like everybody else.
 So it's my religious life, it's just my belonging. Yes, I am Orthodox, I'm Christian, and this is my status.
 But this is my beliefs. Faith is not belief in Christ, that Christ is Savior. It's not belief in that.
 Faith is that I trust in Him, entrust Him all my life.
 But to be able to entrust everything I do and to act upon His commandments in every single choice that I make,
 that means that I need to have great trust in Him, because it will be contrary to my logic, human logic.
 So if we really want to grow in faith, we really have to have this daily experience with Christ, in relationship with Him.
 And we should not get proud. This is the greatest concern, why we don't have that much miracles happening in our life,
 or signs of Lord's presence, is because we are too proud, we think "I'm so special, if the Lord is acting my life, I'm very special, better than others".
 This is false, because the sun is shining upon everybody. Are you proud that today the sun is shining upon you?
 Of course not. In the same way, if we feel and we have God's presence in our life, this doesn't mean that we are very good.
 So let us talk about what signs can we have, so that we are reinforced in faith day by day.
 There are first of all experiences of Christians, people who believe in Christ, but have no feeling of God's presence, Christ's presence in their life.
 For example, I've been to one country in Papua New Guinea, and a big number of people, more than a thousand people there, decided to become Orthodox.
 And when I was talking with them and trying to understand why they want to do that, they said that we go to church, to the Catholic Church, every day, every Sunday.
 And we do everything we are supposed to do. We do Confessions, Communion, read Bible, pray, but nothing changes.
 We still have all those bad habits, we still quarrel, accuse each other, depression, we need to eat this bitter nut to make us excited.
 And it's even worse than people outside of our church, and people who are not Christians.
 So why bother? And they discover that they have their presence of Christ when they become Orthodox.
 So, another example is one time in Ukraine, in a schismatic church, I went there, it's not one time, a few times I visited.
 It's just a museum, you don't feel God inside. You feel it's just a museum, just stones.
 And there is also a false feeling of God's presence.
 False feeling is these modern practices of Charismatics, which are popular, where people just gather, they scream, they shake, they jump, have loud music, hallelujah, some screaming.
 And then, yes, now I feel it, I feel it, yes. Well, you just can get anyone on the street, bring him to that gathering, and he will feel exactly the same stirred up emotions.
 And it will have nothing to do with Christ and Holy Spirit.
 This is pure man-made emotional blast, and also romanticism.
 Everyone is romantic, this feeling of Christ, my husband, and it's a very different spirit, and it's not healthy spiritually.
 So, today I want to talk about healthy spirituality, and I want to distinguish at least six aspects that can tell us that on a daily basis I'm getting closer to Christ.
 The first one is the healing power of resurrection coming into my heart.
 This will be the most evident when we partake of the Holy Communion after a very good confession, repenting our sins in paradise.
 Then we will feel this the most.
 But even before that, if we're not yet baptized, we can feel that healing power.
 We can feel that when I repent and I pray to God, the Lord is healing my wounds.
 My soul inside is broken, I have darkness, I have sickness, I have all kinds of negative feelings inside, I'm unable to do good things.
 And many other ways of sensing that I am sick, I have problems, I'm overlying on some things, I'm addicted to some things.
 I have some passions that I cannot get rid of, and I feel the Lord is healing me, I'm changing when I pray to Him, when I receive the Holy Communion.
 This is already communication with Christ, and we can gain it on a daily basis, especially when we receive the Holy Communion.
 We need to be careful to our own internal world to be able to sense it.
 It's renewing, it's making us a new. Because the exchange that happens is not really exchange.
 It looks like exchange, but it's not. This is another topic.
 We bring ourselves to Him, our efforts to follow His commandments, our prayers, our participation.
 We bring it to Him, and He is healing our soul.
 He is healing our soul as a result of us bringing ourselves to Him.
 So this aspect is present.
 Another is our feelings get enlightened.
 Our feelings get enlightened, and we lose so much attachment to external worldly things.
 And there are at least five aspects to this.
 Usually, normally, when we don't have Christ in our life, we are relying and we are attached to five things.
 What are they? Food, eating, meals, we go and we're looking for good restaurants and we are concerned that we have tasty food on our table and things like that.
 That's important for us. Very important.
 Then clothes. What do I wear? Comfortable, good-looking, makeup for girls. How do I look? These things.
 The third is where I live. My house has to be also nice, warm, comfortable.
 We'll go to hotel, we want a better hotel. We care about where do we live.
 We care about relationships with others. We don't want to be lonely.
 Many people have depression when they're lonely.
 So we are relying on our relatives, our friends and all kinds of communication.
 Even with Facebook, we need social communication. We depend on it.
 And the fifth is glory that we need to receive from this world.
 This may come from our status, from the likes that we get on our blogs, on any kind of recognition.
 That is glory that we want from this world.
 But with Christ, when we get closer to Him, when He enters into our life, all these five things are replaced with five spiritual things.
 Food. He is the food for our life. The Word of God is food for our life.
 And it becomes much more important than the earthly food.
 We lose this attachment and interest to it that we have so much.
 We don't have that strong feelings toward it when we have the truth spiritually.
 We have the clothes of whoever is baptized in Christ has put on Christ.
 We put on Christ His way of doing things. He adorns us.
 This is a big topic. I cannot go deep into it. But He is replacing this craving for clothes in this world.
 We have the house.
 For us it becomes the most important that my soul dwells in the temple of the Lord.
 And I can feel that. And that becomes what matters.
 And even if I am far away in Africa, in some desert, anywhere, in a forest, I feel I am in the Lord's presence.
 My heart has this comfort and has this dwelling.
 And the more this feeling arrives to us, the less we care so much about the physical place where we live.
 And comfort and things like that.
 So these feelings are changed.
 The relationship with humans. We feel that we are never alone.
 More and more we feel that Christ is with us. The more we have that feeling, the more Christ is with us.
 This will give us assurance that we are with Him and talking to Him, communicating with Him.
 And the fifth glory. The Christian receives the glory from God, not from people.
 Whenever he does righteous things. Whenever he lives in chastity.
 Wherever he goes by commandments of the Lord.
 This glory, he is feeling this glory coming because he is getting closer to the saints.
 And they are in glory. And he is receiving this glory.
 This should not make him proud. He is still very humble and feels that he is worse than everybody else.
 But he can feel that glory from God. That's what matters.
 The third. Now I've talked about these feelings.
 But the third is our mind is enlightened by Christ.
 He is the light for the world. And He is enlightening us.
 How does that happen? We understand things that we could not in the past.
 About moral values. We can make better judgments.
 We can know meaning of prayers better.
 We can understand better some family relationships. Our own and other families.
 This wisdom of human relationships. We can understand even regular studies.
 Our mind works better. We can study better. Anything.
 When we have wisdom coming from Christ. This always is related to this enlightenment.
 So we should feel that he is with us.
 The fourth aspect is our change of our attitude towards other people.
 The more we approach Christ, the less we judge others.
 The more we feel their pain. We become more kind to them.
 Because we see Christ on their faces, in their lives.
 We see some light, some dignity in everyone. We see more.
 We see the Lord's image in them. Something spiritual, something bright in them.
 And we become more respectful to them. More humble in listening to them.
 Even in obeying them. Especially if it's someone older than us.
 Or maybe in the church. We become more obedient, not so selfish.
 In the family-spouse relationship, we become more attentive, more obedient to each other.
 This is also a sign that the Lord is coming to us. He means in our life.
 The fifth aspect is we think less about ourselves.
 If we have this, this is also a sign of Christ coming into our life.
 We think less about earthly things, which I've mentioned, and about ourselves.
 My future, my career, how other people perceive me.
 Many other things. No fear that something will happen to me.
 We don't value our own time that much.
 We value that we dedicate this time to Christ and to his ministry.
 That is what we value. But it's not always my time, you're wasting my time. No.
 It is now not my time, my future, my well-being. No.
 All these things, they go less and less. We have it less and less.
 That means that Christ is changing us and the seed of his word is growing in our hearts.
 We need to understand this and have even more effort.
 When we see him in our life, we put even more effort into service.
 And the last thing that I want to bring up is that we become more patient for sorrows,
 for some hits of his life coming to us.
 Pain, sickness, tribulations, lack of money, all kinds of problems that are coming to our life.
 We have more resistance, we have more endurance.
 When somebody is calling us, saying something bad, we are not so much troubled by that.
 That means that the Lord is with us, we feel him more and more.
 We can even imagine that he is on our side and he is also experiencing those difficulties that we experience.
 And reinforcing us, he is our friend, he is our support, he is our reliance, our rock.
 And this becomes reality.
 So these are the things that I want to bring up.
 We can also see answers from the Lord in the things that happen in our life.
 This may be not a daily basis, maybe this happens once every few months.
 Or where we have some special life situation and we are asking for his answer.
 Something happens, we should not think "Oh, it just happened that way".
 No, this is the Lord answering your prayers and your heart.
 He is giving this to you.
 So we should be thankful to him and have this dialogue, this ongoing dialogue with him that is going in our lives.
 So let us remember about these things.
 Let us feel the Lord's presence in every day of our life.
 Pray for this presence.
 And have this communication with him going on, reinforcing our faith, seeing that he is responding.
 Through all these things we see his response and we are willing to do even more.
 We are willing to sacrifice even more.
 Our faith becomes stronger and stronger and we are willing to walk on the waters as Apostle Peter has done.
 And we will walk on the waters.
 With the Lord's help and his blessing, Amen.
