 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am in Taichung, this is a big city in the middle of Taiwan.
 At some point there was an idea to make it a capital, but later it was decided that Taipei
 will be capital.
 Still Taichung is one of the three largest cities of Taiwan.
 And just yesterday night we had a church meeting, church service and gathering here in Taichung.
 And I have some thoughts that I want to share with you.
 I came to Taiwan 16 years ago, and during this time some people were born and now they
 almost become adults.
 And of course many people who were adults, they are old now, much older, and even a lot
 of people die already.
 So it's quite a while, 16 years is quite a period of time.
 So it is good to think of what is happening in this world and why are we here in this
 world.
 Because we see these generations of people, they are passing by ourselves.
 We see how we get older and we will also eventually leave this place.
 And it's not very easy to see what is the most important goal.
 Why do we leave and what should we do?
 What are the priorities that we should have?
 As we become Christians, we're also not clear, should I put more effort into prayer?
 Is this the goal?
 What is the goal?
 Or should I care more about my family, raise children, buy a good, better house and improve
 fees?
 And that is my Christian ministry.
 Or maybe I should do some social work, help orphans, widows, sick people.
 Maybe I should go for pilgrimage to many places.
 Or maybe should I do more research, read theology, books about faith?
 What is the goal?
 What Christ is expecting from me?
 Maybe I should become a missionary, just go everywhere, preach.
 What is the goal that the Lord is setting for me?
 Because we see that it's passing, the time is running fast.
 And with the everyday routine, the life that we are running around, the true treasure is
 covered with dust.
 And what I will say today, you might think it's very self-evident, very obvious things.
 But most obvious things, they are the ones that we forget, and that's why we don't have
 a focus in this life.
 Because this world is like a river, it's flowing through us, we see how it changes.
 Taiwan has changed a lot, Taichung has changed.
 There was no subway here at that time.
 Now there is, and many other changes, the whole world is changing.
 Where is it going?
 Maybe I should fight with Antichrist, with the evil that there is.
 That's my main goal as a Christian, Orthodox Christian.
 Or what?
 What is it?
 Well, this is the situation that gave me the clear idea of what is the most important.
 The situation is that people who were born here, after I came, well, at that time, 97%
 of Taiwanese population was Buddhist, pagan.
 All those cults and beliefs, Confucianism, Taoism, it's all mixed with paganism.
 Then there were these people who were born later, when I came, and basically, theoretically,
 I had an opportunity to meet with them and tell them about faith, and they would become
 Christian, Orthodox Christian.
 Most of them, not all of them, but a lot of them.
 But today we have the same situation, we have 97% who don't believe in Christ, and most
 of them, they don't know what's Orthodox.
 So this means that they believe something else.
 They were born, they were taught something else.
 Most of them are still pagan.
 A lot of them, they don't have any faith, they don't believe in that, in anything.
 A lot of them went to some sects and somewhere else.
 And now, basically, they are going the wrong direction, to put it in a nice words.
 And we know that direction, we know what happened with those peaks that ran from the cliff and
 were drowned in the water.
 And basically that's where the whole world is going now.
 So what is the goal of every one of us as Christians?
 The goal is to discover, discover the gospel, discover that the gospel is the source of
 life and all meaning, and to share this love with everyone else, to incite their love,
 their interest in gospel, so that they can find the source of life and the way which
 is Christ, because he said that if you don't eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink
 his blood, you will not have life.
 That's John 6.53.
 And he also said that whoever is not in me and I am in him, whoever is in me and I am
 in him, he will bring much fruit because without me, you cannot do anything.
 This is John 15.1.
 So without finding Christ, and people find him through their love of gospel, and they
 will find the Holy Communion through uniting with him in the Holy Communion, receiving
 his true, precious blood and body.
 And the first step, of course, is for us ourselves to find out, because usually we think, well,
 the gospel, the gospel, we know everything that happened there, we know what Christ said,
 so what?
 But we don't find the true treasures of it, because even people who are atheists, they
 also know all of it.
 They research Christianity, they know the gospel better than you do.
 And that doesn't make them closer to God.
 So for us, it's important to find that joy of discovering what is contained in the gospel.
 And I'm unable to share everything now, but just some major points.
 Let me indicate, what should we be looking for when we read the gospel, when we try to
 live according to the gospel?
 We need to see that it gives us victory over this world.
 It's giving us victory over evil, over all deception that there is in this world.
 That gives us true life and enjoyment.
 We enjoy being victors of this evil and this world, being free of those temptations that
 there are in this world.
 We can discover the life that we receive through abandoning ourselves, self-sacrifice, bearing
 our cross and following Christ.
 How much life does it bring to our souls?
 We will discover that, and we will love the words of salvation that are contained in the
 gospel, that are brought to us through the gospel.
 And we will share this with others.
 We will also feel that true blessedness, true joy are coming through righteous life, through
 having humble heart, repentance, meekness of soul, clean heart, clean conscience.
 That's what we receive through living with Christ.
 And this brings us true joy.
 Despite all the problems we have, despite all troubles, we have so much, usually we
 are depressed.
 We are depressed, we don't feel any joy.
 We have competition with somebody, we have an economical burden, we have troubles in
 our families, we have all kinds of sorrows, and we're not happy with our life.
 And we live miserable lives.
 And we are also controlled by all kinds of temptations that we have.
 We want this, we want that, we want to enjoy, we want to spend more.
 But the Lord is giving us freedom from all of that through the blessed life that he is
 teaching us to go to live through.
 This joy of having our conscience, cleaning our heart, clean from all the dirt and all
 the garbage that there is and having the healing coming from Christ and having the Lord's love
 changing our heart step by step, slowly, making it more warm, more receptive, more compassionate
 to others.
 We will also discover the beauty of the wisdom of God that is contained in these words of
 the Gospel, this fullness, this richness that there is, because this everyday life
 makes us so deprived, it's so ugly, so poor.
 We try to find something, some enjoyment, some entertainment, but it's all the same
 thing.
 It's nothing special.
 But the true joy of the treasures that are hidden in the Gospel, they will be uncovered.
 We will find the joy in gaining the patience, the strength from the Lord.
 He is the strong Lord, mighty, almighty, to get victory in this spiritual war.
 We will find great joy in that.
 And that will fill our life.
 And that will make our life, we will not be thinking, "Oh, I wish I died so soon.
 Why do I have this such a long time?
 I discovered Christ.
 I want to die with him.
 Be with him."
 So every day that he gives you has great meaning and you will need to go through all those
 days to gain greater joy and to have a better, greater reward from him in the heavens eventually.
 And we need to share this with others.
 We need to first love ourselves, have a deep love and appreciation of what am I getting,
 gaining from the Gospel.
 Really every day.
 And share it with others.
 There are so many people out there who live, who are wasting their life and it's a day
 by day, they get older, they die and it's over and it's finished.
 And we are the ones who have this responsibility.
 And everything else that I've listed, all those Christian ministries, they're all important.
 They're all good, but it's all extension.
 The door is the Gospel and Christ himself.
 And sometimes people, how do I share?
 Just bring someone to the Church, just bring him to the Church.
 Like maybe our parents or grandparents, they've done it at some point, but also this is good.
 They feel that in the Church is the salvation, but this is not enough.
 We need to have a greater focus, words of Christ, life with Christ, according to the
 Gospel, the great value of the Gospel, how precious it is, how important it is, how much
 life does it give to us for every day.
 Let us live with the Gospel, by the Gospel and bring it, share it with everyone else
 and find joy and living in this great and central goal of our life on every day.
 Amen.
 God bless.
