 Dear brothers and sisters, recently I hear a lot of criticism of the church coming from the faithful, from the people who are in the church.
 And in these times, when we are facing the end of times, the struggle with Antichrist is going to be quite fierce.
 And we need to have a better understanding of our relationship with the church, what is the church, and build this relationship in a way that we can withstand all these deceit and all those temptations coming from the times of Antichrist.
 Because we cannot rely on someone there. We need to rely only on saints within the church. And every one of us is called to be such a saint.
 Because it's a spiritual struggle and we need to be spiritually strong and ready to go through this struggle.
 To understand what is the church, we need to think what does it mean that it's a body of Christ. Is it mystical body of Christ that is somewhere out there, but all of us were just people, just sinners?
 How about the hierarchy, this official church? Is the church just the statistics? How many portfolios do we have in all the world? That's the church.
 Or the church is the saints in the books. We read their lives. That's the real church. But now we don't have it. Maybe we have something about someone who is a saint, but somewhere in the forest, somewhere far away.
 Or the church is just me. Me, Christ, that's enough. I don't care about anything else.
 There are different ways of looking at what is the church and what our relationship with the church is.
 And to begin, I want to recall words of Saint Cypriot of Carthage, who said that for whom church is not his mother, God is not his father.
 So we need to enter into this relationship with the church, that it's our spiritual mother.
 We should not be foreign outsiders. The church is out there. It's those priests, those bishops, patriarchs, and it's me. I'm looking and criticizing this church.
 We should understand that we are her children. Whose children? That's the question.
 And only in that sense, in that case, we will be children to God the Father. He will be our Father. We will really be able to say our Father.
 That won't be just a prayer. It will be a reality.
 To understand this problem, we need to begin from our perception of people and reality. And there are two big problems that we have in modern times.
 One problem is that we have a completely demysterized mindset. There are no mysteries for us in this world.
 We look at it as just objects, physical objects, or some legal objects. Church is a legal entity, it has its charter, it has its finance and stuff.
 That's reality. It's financial, legal reality. But we don't understand the church as a mystical organism.
 In the same way, we can look at our parents, our mother and father, as just people. They are just physical people and they just have their selfish interests and their legal rights.
 That's it. Or we can have this understanding that it's more than that. It's my mother, it's my father.
 In the past, people were much more receptive to such realities. For them, concepts of "homeland" meant something. Something more than they mean for us now.
 For us now, it's just the customs. I need to fill in some blanks. That's "homeland security". I'm done with that.
 But it's just a bunch of selfish people living in some territory. That's it.
 For us, it's less and less that. I also call it "hacked mind", "hacked world".
 Because this is something that is making us unable to see what a church is.
 And this is related to another problem that we have. Another problem is that we are very self-confident.
 St Ignatius Brecciniero says that this self-confidence and self-assurance and the feeling that I understand stuff and that I am very smart.
 This makes us miserable in the eyes of God. He doesn't tolerate, he doesn't like people like that.
 People like that cannot be saved. But this is what we feel, this spirit we feel from movies. We look at those actors and they know everything and they are very sure about themselves.
 This spirit is an adult spirit. And Christ is talking about children, that you need to become like children.
 In Matthew 18.3 he says, "Sure I tell you, truly I tell you, if you don't repent and become and be like children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven."
 You need to repent, you need to turn away. In the same way as you turn away from idolatry.
 You leave it away and you turn to God. You turn away from lust, idolatry. You throw it away, you turn to God.
 In the same way you need to throw away this spirit and become like children. What does it mean to be like child?
 It's not this infantile, this hello kitty, those childish things. No. To be like child means to be simple.
 To be without any evil thoughts. To not have the curiosity that bad heroes always have.
 No, children they don't have. About some events that happened with somebody and stuff like that.
 To be more naive. To believe people. To be willing to learn everything.
 To have that mystical feeling about reality. That there are some mysterious things about it.
 And very quickly repent. If you do something wrong children they repent quickly.
 Nowadays children are quite bad already from very early age. They try to pretend something and stuff like that.
 So we are talking about normal children, not modern children.
 So we need to become like that. And if we become like children ourselves we will be able to have as mother the church, spiritual mother.
 And father and God as our father.
 And we will see this mystical component to the church. We will see where is just hierarchy and where is this mystical reality.
 And we will love this mystical reality and we will not always look at all this church as a church, criticizing all of that.
 And we need to become very much united. We need to enter into the army.
 When we enter into the army we don't criticize everybody is bad, that thing is like that.
 No, it's the war going on. And you just take the rifle and you just go and you fight.
 And if you fight good, you will win. The army will advance.
 If you always criticize and say we don't have this and we don't have that and the commanders, generals are stupid, it's going to be lost for sure.
 There is no chance. So we enter into this army of Christ.
 We need to be ready and we need to be very demanding from ourselves, from each of us.
 We need to know for sure that the church is providing the full grace that the God can give us.
 It did not diminish. The Lord's hand did not become weak.
 It's us who are not willing to receive the might of God into our lives.
 And that's why we become weak. So only then we can advance and we can spoil those plans of those Antichrists and overthrow all that deceit that is coming into the world.
 So if we are orphans, spiritual orphans, we don't have spiritual mother, then we cannot bring fruit, spiritual fruit.
 We cannot build our small church, our family as a church, as a Christian family.
 We cannot build even our own temple of our soul. We cannot build because we are orphans.
 We don't have. In the same way as usually if people are thrown away by their parents, they seldom can build a decent family.
 It's very difficult. In the same way, if we are orphans, we did not enter into this spiritual reality.
 We don't have this deep love and reliance on the church spiritual.
 Then we will lose for sure and we will not bring any spiritual fruit.
 May the Lord help us, make us fruitful, help us strengthen, become stronger in this world.
 Not to judge others, not to judge hierarchy, to work together, to pray for each other and for all this world.
 To overcome all evil and to enter into the glory of Christ. I mean, Lord bless.
