 Dear brothers and sisters, today we live in this world of ecumenism and the world of this great reset that's going on, and I want to clarify a few things.
 Regarding this ecumenism, I've already had a couple of videos in the past, the problem is that we see that people see there is blessing in the Buddhism.
 There is a blessing in the church, there is a blessing in Muslim deities, there is fasting in Buddhism, there is fasting in the church, there are temples in Buddhism, in Taoism, in the holy church, there are priests, there are some rituals, there are some holy objects.
 There are many things which seem to be similar, scriptures. So this tendency is very strong to say "well, it's all about the same, everybody is looking for truth and somehow they are trying to find it and there are different paths to this truth and different understandings".
 Basically it's all about the same, just telling you to be a good person and to have some feeling of some holy and things like that, to be in peace with everybody.
 So this is paving the way to the world religion. In the ancient times there were different cults and they were trying to mimic, to copy the holy church.
 And they had very similar rituals. The holy fathers and apologists, they saw that this is coming from the devil, because the devil is trying to mimic God, he is a monkey of God, he is trying to have the same power as God has over the world and he is trying to pretend he is God.
 And those cults, they are coming from the devil and they are trying to be somewhat similar to God, to the holy church, to lead people astray.
 And they say, despite all those similarities, for example there was this cult of Mithra which even had something like Holy Communion with bread and water, they were breaking bread and having water and they said "well, you are just copying the Holy Communion, trying to pretend you are the church".
 So they said basically, one is coming from God, another is coming from demons. So the God is liberating, he gives you freedom, the enemy can liberate you, the enemy will enslave you.
 God gives you justification, makes you justified, forgives your sins so that you will not be condemned for them. But the enemy, he is condemned already himself, how can he make you not condemned?
 He is condemned himself. The Lord, he is healing you, he is giving you cure. While enemy, he is killing you, he is your enemy, his aim is to kill you.
 God gives you truth and wisdom and knowledge. Well, the devil will always cheat you, he is a liar, he will seduce you, put you in traps.
 God, he helps you, he does what is good for you, he knows even better than you do. But what about enemy? The enemy will prevent you from reaching the right goals, he will spoil your plans, he will be an obstacle for your growth.
 He might give you something, but it's gonna be fake. The Lord is saving you, he is rescuing you from the dangers, from perils, from death. But devil, he will make sure you are dead, he will kill you.
 God gives, he has a grace, he is gracious, he gives to his creature. But devil is stealing, he is a thief.
 And this is what you get in those skulls. This is what you get everywhere outside the holy Church of God. So, this deceit and harm coming from the devil will not, you will not avoid it.
 Okay, you will get it if you make this fake choice, false choice. Okay, so now I want to say a few words about the baptism that we enter into the Church, what we gain, and what is this great reset, so-called, is trying to give us, is pretending that it will give us.
 Because it is giving us something as an anti-baptism. And it's giving it not only to individuals, but to the whole world, the whole society and across the globe.
 Okay, and basically these parallels can be done with any revolution. We can look at the Russian Bolshevik Revolution, to the Chinese Communist Revolution, to French Revolution, to any kind of social, big social change.
 Okay, I'm not talking about industrial or technological revolutions, I'm talking about these big social changes that happen, some ideological background behind it, and that are completely changing the society.
 Okay, so, what we gain in the holy baptism? We gain true life. We gain true life from God. But in this great reset, let's say, we will give you new life in this new future, and you need to do these procedures, these fancy procedures, to gain that, and you will get this life.
 You will not die as those who don't want to get these procedures. The holy baptism gives you a connection with God, with your Lord.
 And they will give you connection to something else. They promise connection to this big data world, this digital new world, and to many other technologies. Some people call this digital Leviathan.
 That's this AI world that is out there. It will give you full connection to that, and it will be a source of all goodies, all knowledge, and everything else for you.
 And it will improve your health, it will do everything for you. You will get products and abilities, and everything is going to come from there. So, this is some alternative.
 In the holy baptism, we gain enlightenment. We are illuminated by the light of God. But they say also that you will get some enlightenment, and you are enlightened already if you are walking on this path of this great reset.
 Because those who don't want it, they lack education, they are in darkness, they are from feudal times, they are retrograds. So, that's why they don't have the knowledge and the brightness that you need.
 You can do this for any revolution. It's not only this new one that's coming, you can do it for anyone. There is also enlightenment in Europe in the 18th century, and many other things.
 You can use this framework. Let's keep going. Baptism gives us victory over demons. We overthrow these demons, they have no power over us.
 And this new reset will give you also victory over the virus, and over many other things that I will talk about in the future.
 Over ecological problems, victory over economic, social problems, it will give you this inclusive capitalism. It will save many people who are in poverty and things like that.
 And the Holy Father says that Antichrist will pretend that he is rescuing those who are exploited, those who are miserable.
 And Lenin was like that, the proletariat, he was going to save it. And now also it is coming in this way. We are the saviours.
 Okay, so the Holy baptism is bringing us into the kingdom of God, into the heavenly kingdom. And this reset is going to bring us to the beautiful new world.
 This is also Hekst. He wrote that book. This is an amazing new world. We don't talk about what it is now, but it's going to be really good. And now Zuckerberg is talking about this metaverse.
 This is going to be some new amazing world in this virtual reality, stuff like that. And there are many things about it, but this is going to be something really nice.
 It's going to be a future, and it's going to be so developed and so nice, technologically and in every respect, socially.
 The Lord is giving us the food of life, but He will give us this minimal allowance that you are going to get.
 If you are connected to that, of course you will get the ability to buy things, because without it you cannot even buy things.
 But you will also get from them this minimal allowance that is enough for you to live, for your subsistence.
 So they also give you this food of life. We receive the seal of the Holy Spirit, the seal of the Holy Spirit giving us access to the power of the Holy Spirit.
 And we also have the sign of the Cross, a very visible sign that we have. We put it on ourselves, because we dedicate ourselves to Christ, and we receive this saving power from Christ, the resurrection power.
 And they say, "Okay, now you get this cure code, or something else, the green past, and it will give you access to all the goodies out there.
 Just receive this day, and everything is going to be yours." So, similar things.
 We have, when we enter into the Church, the understanding that those who don't enter, the external people who don't choose to walk this path, eventually they will perish.
 And they also tell you anti-vaxxers are going to die, and all who don't receive this beautiful new world, they don't have any means for existence.
 Maybe they go to Africa, or some ghetto, or somewhere else, but basically they don't have a part in it.
 In the baptism we have the birth of a new man, a new human, and they also tell you that we'll create a new you, a digital self, a digital copy, and you will have new abilities.
 This is another thing, because in the Holy Church we say, "You will gain new abilities, talents coming from the Lord, you will surpass your fallen nature, you will gain your great gifts from God."
 And they say, "Well, you transhumanist, you will surpass the nature of man, you will gain something else, you will gain new neurological abilities.
 You will gain, maybe not immortality, but you can live until 150 years old, and you have something else, some genetic modified stuff will heal you and give you some abilities."
 It's all this transhumanism thing.
 We say in the Church that you will gain independence from the world, you will be over this world, and they also tell you that you will be not decided, not limited by your gender.
 It's all this many gender thing.
 You will not be limited by morality, some values, no, you will be free of that, you will be free of those moral superstitions that's coming from Middle Ages and stuff like that.
 And you will be free from this society, you will be free from society, so we have this social distance and all this online thing, you can be just in your cell and you are independent, you are independent from them.
 But at the same time, you gain this new family, in the Church we have new family, we receive the new family, and there they will give you this new family in this metaverse.
 Facebook also is a new family, but we already know that it doesn't substitute, even the family that we have, not speaking about spiritual family that we gain in the Holy Church.
 So all these things, previous revolutions, they had that, but it was in local places, in USSR, in China, in France, in Europe, but now they want it to be global, and they want it to be irreversible.
 They want to shape us, this new human, they want to create this new society, new humans, new generation.
 And the one last and very important thing is that the Holy Baptism in the Church is accomplished by the Holy Spirit. We receive the Holy Spirit and we receive the life and this union in this body of Christ from the Holy Spirit.
 They also have their own spirit. This whole thing has its own spirit. They don't talk about it, but basically it does. The spirit of lie, of deceit.
 And in the Holy Fathers we read that Antichrist, in those times, people will be receiving that deceit. People will be following that agenda of Antichrist massively.
 Everybody is going to believe those lies because they choose sin. So we have to have our own vaccine, spiritual vaccine against all those things.
 If we are with Christ, if we live according to this new covenant with Christ, we will be safe. No matter what happens with this world, even if Antichrist comes, no matter what happens, as long as we are with Christ, we are growing stronger and stronger in Christ.
 If we choose to live in grace with Him, we should be absolutely sure and confident that Antichrist is not going to overtake us and cheat us.
 May the Lord help us, give us His grace, give us His strength and make us wise in Christ and avoid any kind of deception.
