 Dear brothers and sisters, yesterday the Holy Church has entered into the Christmas Land or is called Advent, it's a special time of expecting the coming of the Lord, of the Savior into this world.
 And we remember that in the time when Christ came, the whole world was expecting for a Savior, but it was not expecting for Christ, it was expecting for Antichrist.
 The Israelites, they were expecting Hebrew, the Jews, they were expecting some political leader, some powerful king who will solve the economic and political problems, will bring glory and rich life and prosperity to the Palestine, to the people of Israel.
 And pagans, they were waiting also for some solution to all these political problems that they had within the Roman Empire, big political struggles and problems, and social problems like moral degradation.
 They had philosophical, unable to find answers to questions, they had all kinds of problems at that time, and they were also expecting some Savior, and of course in the East there was also this expectation, in Persia, in Babylon, in those areas, the whole world was expecting some kind of salvation to come.
 But they did not receive Christ, most of these people they did not receive.
 And the similar thing is happening today, the whole world is expecting the end of the world, it's expecting some bad events to happen, and also expecting some relief, some salvation from these events.
 We want salvation from pandemics, we want salvation from economic problems that we have, unemployment in South Africa is 40% unemployment, we have this new stem of this virus.
 And the whole world is struggling, people who have faith, they see all these moral problems, they expect now some revival of moral, some salvation coming to solve those problems.
 We need salvation to solve the pollution, ecological problem, we have this poverty problem, hunger in many countries, here we have mission in East Timor, people have hunger, in Africa people die from famine.
 We see these all kinds of problems, and we ourselves are very much worried in this, we're immersed in this circle of these problems, we call it circle of samsara or anything, we're all worried, we look what news are coming, what is going to be happening next.
 This Davos Forum in January is coming, what are we going to decide? We're so much concerned with what is happening, because we're expecting some salvation to come.
 But salvation is not bad, and unfortunately the eventual problem will be the same. Most of the people will choose Antichrist instead of Christ, including those people who consider themselves Christians.
 And this is why it's so important to put great effort into this land that we have, that we can prepare our hearts that the real, the true Christ is going to come and dwell in our hearts.
 And today I want to say a few words about this, and about the peace that will come into our hearts from on high. Very often the priest during the service says "please be to all". This peace is a peace from above, Ireni, that's in Greek.
 It's not "go to sleep". No, it's a spiritual peace, it's very different. This is because we gain the power, the strength, the joy from the Lord himself, and he is above all those problems, believe me.
 For him, all this pandemic, economic, poverty, for him it's not a problem at all. And he gives this joy and peace to every one of us, so that he can gain us, he can let us be saved from these worries, from these troubles, from these fears, from all these problems.
 But we need to choose, we need to make this firm choice of Christ. And this is the mystery that is coming, the mystery of Christ coming into this world, the personality of Christ.
 It's not just "I choose everything good, I'm against everything bad, and I'm choosing Christ". No. Or "I just go baptize, and I just become Christian, I believe in Christ". No. This is interpersonal choice that we make.
 And we make it once, when we step on this path, and we also have to make it daily, every day. This is like marriage. When we marry someone, we make this commitment, it's a one-time commitment, we get into this marriage.
 But later, we need to live up to this commitment every day, make this choice and decision every day, and actually every moment, because every moment we can look somewhere else, betray this commitment, and we betray Christ.
 Every moment we do sin, we say "Lord, sorry, I do this, I choose this at this moment". Why? Because this is this, because I'm tired, because I have this passion coming out, I have something else, it's very attractive.
 So for now, wait a second. This is what we have. And we're lacking everything. We're lacking both in this first original commitment, it's maybe problematic, and this daily commitment, this every moment commitment. We're betraying Christ, and this is the biggest problem.
 It's much bigger than this pandemic or any other problem. The problem of people departing from God, betraying God, not loyal to Christ.
 And this is what we need to think about during this time of Advent. And how do we say if we chose Christ? Okay, what is true Christ?
 Christmas is Advent season, it's not about nice music and all those lights and shopping and giving gifts to each other and all these things. This is good, but it's not the main point. The main point is different. The main point I will say now, I summarize it into five aspects.
 The first and very important aspect of this is rejecting self. The Lord said, "Reject thyself, take up your cross, and follow me." And who will reject his soul? He will gain it. Who will let his soul perish? He will gain it.
 But we are so selfish. We care about ourselves, what I will do today, how can I enjoy, how can I spend my time, fun, how can I make more money, how can I buy better things for myself.
 A more comfortable thing, more tasty food, more healthy drinks, and many other things. We are concerned, we are obsessed about ourselves.
 But this is our choice. We don't choose to forfeit everything, to abandon everything, follow Christ. This is something to think about.
 Another aspect that we need to think about is whether we choose the path of holiness. The path of the saints. We throw away all darkness, all sin, all deeds of the death, all passions, all evil thoughts, anything.
 We just throw away, reject. We want piety, virtue, light. This is what we choose. This is our path, this is our commitment, this is the way to salvation and what the Lord is willing to ask you to be like, to have, to advance in this.
 So this is another important, the second important aspect of my choice. When I choose Christ, what does it mean to choose Christ?
 And to help us to develop, to become stronger in this is the great land, is the Christmas land. And I will say a few more words about how do we fast in a moment.
 The third thing that we need, we need to reject this world. We reject this world for us. The Lord said don't love this world and what is in this world.
 Don't be always thinking, tasty food, nice clothes, vacations, some enjoyment, my status, how people perceive me, like me, this vainglory thing.
 Just don't care about this too much. You're still in this world, you're not living in the desert, but this is not the main priority for you anymore.
 This is important. This also means we choose Christ. People that chose Antichrist, they did not make this choice.
 So this is what Christ brings and he wants us to have.
 The fourth one is that we need to choose to create, to build, not to destroy.
 We can build wrong thing, I will say about this later, but first we need to choose not to destroy, not to destroy somebody else's work, not to destroy somebody's life, somebody's family, somebody's psychological situation.
 We are not destroyers. We are building, the Lord said, whoever is gathering with me, not just himself, gathering with me, whoever is not gathering with me, he is spreading, he is scattering, he is destroying basically.
 So the Lord wants us to put together, together what? To build what? To build the kingdom of heaven in our hearts and in our families and in this world.
 To build anything related to this creative power that he gave us in the ministry to him, be it our family, be it our work that we do, be it some other form of creative commitment that we have.
 But it has to be done with Christ, because there is another building, building of Babylon, building of Mamo. Maybe we build the big buildings or business or something else, but this is full of vainglory.
 This is full of, let us make our name. I want to be known. This vainglory is problems. The building of financial success or building of something else.
 This seems to be a building, but it is building of the Babylon. It is contributing to this whole kingdom of Babylon that they build.
 That all of us, the whole humanity is building now. So I don't want to contribute to this Babylon. I go out. I don't want to build Babylon.
 So this is the fourth. And the fifth is that we need to choose the path of meekness and not having any evil thoughts or retaliation or any aggression.
 This is another spirit that we choose, the path that we step on. We don't try to push through aggressively, to conquer someone, to overcome something.
 If somebody hits you, we don't hit back. This is the principle that we choose. We are humble and in this we are like doves, like children.
 Not spoiled children like we have today, but like good, kind children. They don't hit back.
 So this is the spirit and the path that we are choosing. We are choosing it on a daily basis.
 And to get stronger, firmer on this path, which is chosen by so few people, we need to have this advanced land.
 We limit what we eat. It's not just rules of diet. I don't eat this, I eat that. No, this is just helping us in the whole feeling, virtue of abstinence.
 That I can control my old man. The old man always wants this, wants that, wants to consume. I begin with food. If I can contain my food habits, I can contain other things.
 So this land, it's not a very strict land. We can eat fish, except Wednesday and Friday. But we don't eat meat, eggs and dairy. And also less food.
 Also we abstain from passions such as anger or lust or greed or other things. These passions that are coming out and push us in the wrong direction.
 We control them. During the land we put more effort into this. We don't quarrel in the houses. We put more effort into prayer. This is the second. We make it more stable, morning, evening prayer.
 During the day, find time, open, five minutes, pray. We need to be always in this communication with God, this living contact, dialogue with the Lord.
 Spiritual reading, reading the Gospel, reading the Holy Scripture, the Holy Fathers, having our thoughts attuned with their thoughts.
 Not with this world, this circle of samsara, always worried, always reading the news, always in this stress. No. We think what the saints, what their problems, what they face, these spiritual issues.
 And we are thinking about these spiritual issues that we need to solve.
 Also, we do good things, deeds of mercy, ministry, help others. We are also actively involved, more during the land time, during this time.
 And if we can, we also do mission. We share the Gospel with others, our relatives, with our family, with people in the internet, in a good way, not aggressively.
 We share, we do testimony. So these are the things we need to focus on during this time, and this will give us peace coming from above.
 Everybody is so much stressful. So many people have no sleep, they have fears, they have worries.
 The peace comes from the Lord, not from other saviors who will come and bring some technology.
 The world now is the same as it was at that time. We are waiting for solutions, for salvation.
 We want these technologies and things to come to save us. We want to save the overpopulation problem, we want to save the overpollution problem.
 And many other things. Go to space, go to Mars, to save somehow this planet, this society.
 Well, let people who do it, let them do it. We don't expect salvation coming from there.
 We expect salvation coming from Jesus Christ and God the Father.
 May the Lord give us this peace, give us strength in our faith, make us stronger in our commitment not to fail him on a daily basis, to be loyal to him every moment of our life.
 I mean, may the Lord's joy and help be with you during this time of advent and success in the Christmas Land.
 Amen.
