 Dear brothers and sisters, today the Holy Church celebrates the entrance of Our Lady, the Most Holy Theotokos, to the Temple.
 This event happened when she was just three years old, and even though it's not recorded in the Gospels,
 but the Holy Church holds this tradition from ancient times, because there is the report of the saints that this happened.
 And we know in detail how this happened, how this took place.
 But today I will not talk about the history and the spiritual significance of this feast.
 There is plenty of material on this topic, and I advise every one of you to become familiar with this feast and with the meaning.
 Today I want to say something that is very closely related to the will of God, because Mother of God.
 She became chosen for this mission because she was able to follow His will.
 She was the best and most proper human being who was fit for this job, for this mission.
 And then she gained this dignity and this lot, this project, this mission from the Lord,
 because she was willing to follow His will, fully submit herself to the will of God.
 And this brings us to the question, what is the will of God and how come this will is all-encompassing?
 And at the same time, there are so many things that go against it.
 There are two things which both seem to be true, and they are both true.
 We will try to resolve this dilemma. At first, we think that we know that everything that happens in the world is intact with God's plan.
 It's all the project and the providence of the Lord. We see that His will is in everything.
 In our life, we say everything was according to God's will, everything that happened in my life.
 We also say that He is Lord the Almighty and the Lord of this world.
 The Lord means that He has power and He has authority, dignity over this whole world, majesty.
 If He is the ruler, the supreme ruler of this world, why do so many things happen not according to His will?
 We also see that sin is against His will. Satan is against His will.
 We pray, "May Your will, Thy will be come, Thy will be done" in the Lord's Prayer.
 If we pray that His will be done, it means that it's not done yet in many things.
 We want it to happen, but maybe it won't. We know that the Lord wants everyone to be saved.
 But that also means that some people will not be saved.
 We know from the Lord's words and from the Gospels that many people will not be saved.
 They will follow the broad way, not the narrow one.
 This means that people walk in their own will. They are not walking according to God's will.
 The majority of people, most people, and we see the closer we approach the end of times, the more apostasy is going on.
 People are departing from the Lord. They don't want to live, don't want to have families, don't want to have any moral concepts.
 They don't want to read the Bible. They don't want Christianity.
 They don't want anything related to God and His will. They want sin.
 And Sedoma and Hamorah were destroyed because they were living in the sin.
 And the whole world will be destroyed in the same way.
 So is this all a big failure, a big tragedy that happens?
 Well, St. Nicholas of Serbia says that the beginning of the world was from God, from a good source, a good origin.
 The end of the world will also be good and will be in the plan of God, in the overall plan of God.
 So we should not be worried too much because it's all approaching to that final goal that the Lord also has set.
 But how does this fit? It seems to be a contradiction there.
 The answer to this is that there are two different things that we can mean by saying the will of God.
 There is a narrow definition of the will of God and a broader definition.
 So one definition is that the will of God is something that the Lord positively wants.
 He wants this to happen. This is His will, meaning something that He is willing to happen.
 He is willing that you will repent and follow Him and be saved.
 He is willing that the mission is developing in the world.
 He is willing these things. He is willing that people live in chastity, in holiness.
 This is what He does want.
 But there is also another definition.
 So in that sense, many things that happen, most of the things that happen with humans at least.
 The nature, yes, it's following God's will. But the humans, they don't, most of us.
 Or most of the time, even Christians, even pious Christians, we fail many times and we betray Christ.
 So how about another definition of the will?
 The will is something that the Lord allows.
 So it's something that is not something that He wants to happen, but He allows this to happen.
 And that means that He did not stop it from happening.
 Because He also can, if He wants, He can prevent things from happening.
 But He doesn't.
 That means that He allows this to happen and also it means that He will use the outcome of this event for good purpose.
 The event itself is bad and it brings even more evil. No evil produces more evil.
 But He is still allowing this to happen and He will use the outcome of this evil for the good.
 Because He is smarter. He has the wisdom.
 So He has the providence, the overall plan, and He is actually seeing everything before it happens.
 He knows everything before it happens and He makes the overall plan.
 This is outside of our understanding, but we know that it's true.
 And this means that whatever evil that happens out there is allowed by Him to happen and He can find some use for that.
 And this doesn't mean that we need to just let it go.
 Evil is fine. Then we do evil. No, of course we fight with evil.
 And we fight with Santa. With sin. With passions.
 So this is the situation.
 And we need to understand that narrow will of God. What does He really want us to do?
 And do that as much as we can.
 This whole discussion creates another problem, another question.
 Whatever we do, how much does the Lord participate in what we do?
 For example, we buy some table on sale car. Is this will of God that I got this good deal on that car?
 Or that I got on the train in time? Was it will of God?
 Or maybe I didn't get on it in train. The train broke and that was will of God.
 Do I see the will of God in everything that happens with me?
 The Apostle Paul says you need to thank the Lord every time, all the time, for everything.
 For good, for evil, for everything.
 It means that He is participating in whatever happens.
 But this brings us to another problem.
 If we think like that, we can become first very self-centered and vainglorious.
 We can feel that the Lord is like that waitress.
 Running around and helping do this, do this, do that.
 He's just serving me. He's like that.
 I become vainglorious. I think I'm very important.
 And I see my whole life all that happens. I went to some country, I've done this and that.
 It's all by providence of God. It's all coming from God.
 I have that rosy thing. But then all of a sudden I just die.
 Just a heart hits me from some virus or something else.
 And that brings me to what?
 I discover that I'm not so important and then I go to hell all of a sudden.
 I thought that every little thing happens because of God's will.
 But all of a sudden it all ends and I'm suffering and it's too late.
 And I discover that the real God is different from what I was thinking He is.
 So we need to avoid that kind of misunderstanding.
 But the risk of doing that, if we avoid that, we may think that
 "I'm unworthy. I'm a sinner. Why would the Lord help me on every single thing?"
 So He doesn't do it. It just happens by chance.
 This happens, that happens.
 But that brings us to another big problem.
 Unbelief. I live without God. He's not in my life.
 Because I'm unworthy, why should I expect Him to be in what I do?
 And this is pseudo, it's a fake humbleness.
 And it brings us to unbelief.
 The Lord is outside of my life. I just live, just live my life.
 And that's also not something that the Lord wants us to be.
 So we see these two extremes, two wrong mindsets.
 And what is the solution? How do we solve this?
 This is related to the will of God.
 Well, we need to, first, we need to rely, trust God in big things.
 Not in those small, tiny things.
 We need to know that He will not allow me to die of hunger.
 I should not be afraid of those material things, be always nervous about that.
 He will not allow me to die just because of misfortune.
 If I am faithful to Him, of course, trying and praying, I receive the Holy Communion.
 He will not allow some big misfortune to happen.
 I trust Him. I know that this will be according to His will.
 But these are the big things, major things.
 And I'm not expecting that He help me in every little, single thing.
 Also, of course, I consider myself unworthy of any care from the Lord.
 And this is why I don't attach everything, "Oh, this is Lord, help me. This is Lord, help me."
 But I'm thankful to Him. I just thank Him for everything.
 And I don't really think too much, "Is it coming from Lord? Is it coming not from Lord?"
 I just don't think about it. I just thank Him.
 I just thank Him about it. I'm not looking in the mirror.
 "Oh, this is myself. I'm doing here and went there. It's all according to God's providence."
 I'm not focused on myself. I'm focused on doing what Lord said.
 Living according to His commandments and thanking Him for everything.
 And if we notice something is too unusual, then we are surprised how come Lord still cares about me.
 Even in some minor things, and some things happen with me, really it's a miracle from the Lord.
 We are surprised how come me so unworthy, but still having this.
 And maybe this is because my lack of faith. He wants me to remind. He reminds me.
 "Don't forget about me. Rely on me."
 That's why He's doing that. And we don't become vainglorious. "Oh, He's helping. He's not helping them. He's caring about me."
 No, we are still very humble. We are unworthy. We are far away from Him.
 So, we live like this. We rely on Him. We try to live according to that covenant.
 We enter into covenant. We try ourselves as much as we can.
 And we don't always expect, "You need to be." He will be doing what He promised.
 He will be saving us. But that may happen in the long run.
 And we may not understand all the details of His plan, His providence, how He does it.
 And we avoid any sin, any departure, any selfishness. It's just my thing.
 No. Is it in God's will? And then He will allow us to be creators of our life.
 If we submit our sinful and egoistic will to His will. We won't become slaves and robots.
 We will be in His will like Mother of God. That's why He became so holy.
 She became so holy because she was following His will. And then she gained this spiritual freedom.
 So, let us remember this. Let us know that the will of God has different meanings.
 We trust Him. We are not worried that everything is going...
 The whole world is going crazy. Something really bad is going to happen.
 Whatever has to happen, it will happen.
 Ourselves, we do everything as much as we can to do God's will, to do what He wants us to do.
 And everything else He has control, He has His vision, understanding of that.
 May the Lord help us, give us His wisdom, help us like the Mother of God follow His will.
 Especially now during these holy days of the advent of the Christmas Land.
 May the Lord help you and give you His blessing. Amen.
