 Dear brothers and sisters, I am again in Taichung. It's been one month since my last visit and we just had the divine service yesterday night, meeting with the community here.
 And today when we are in the land, in the Advent, Christmas Land, I want to say a few words about the apostasy, when the whole world was expecting Messiah as we are expecting Christmas.
 But they were expecting some other Messiah, which is actually Antichrist. So we need to wait for Christ and not to mistake anyone else for that.
 And for that reason today I want to say a few words about the greatest problem of the humanity and of every individual person, including myself.
 This is a problem of apostasy. Apostasy is standing off or subtracting yourself away from, alienation, alienation from God.
 And this alienation is going to be the reason why this world will be destroyed.
 And we usually don't think too much about it, what kind of alienation is possible, because there are all kinds of alienation from God that's taking place.
 And we need to see it in ourselves first and in this world overall.
 We see that the thing why Christ has criticized those Pharisees the most.
 He said that you are sons of devil, even though they worship their God and they have the temple, they have the Holy Scripture, the law of Moses.
 They were praying many times during the day, doing fasting and many other things.
 However, he told them sons of devil. Why is it so?
 The reason is that satan, satan in the Hebrew language, satan, the word means three, has three definitions, three meanings.
 One of them is, as we know, is a adversary, someone who is against, who is opposed, is an enemy of God.
 Another meaning is one who is separated or separated himself, alienated.
 We know that the devil was the closest Lucifer, he was a light bearer, that means light bearer, he was closest to God, a very talented and bright angel.
 But at some point he decided that he can do it himself, he can be a ruler, king, almighty, and he went according to his own plan.
 And he fell, and now he is the prince of darkness and prince of this world.
 So this separation, alienation, is what makes him a devil.
 And also the third meaning is the one who blocks, who is preventing something.
 He is preventing the Lord's plan from its accomplishment, he is preventing the servants of God.
 Like Paul, he says to the Romans, "I wanted to come to you, but satan has prevented me, he did not allow me to do this."
 So he even can prevent for the apostle Paul, so these are three things which all go together, of course.
 And it is used with the article ha, the satan, meaning that satan, the devil.
 But also it's used very often in the Bible, in the Old Testament, just satan, which means man, some man.
 It can be an adversary in the trial, somebody who is opposing you, or it can be in a war, somebody who is fighting with you, your enemy, your adversary, your contestant.
 And this is satan, that's why also he likes to divide people, makes this against this, they fight and then he wins.
 So these are methods of devil himself, and that's also what the modern destructive competition is based on.
 You need to destroy a competitor, and it would destroy itself if there would be no regulating methods controlling that process.
 So this destructive competition nature makes people like satan also, that's why Christ, he called Peter satan.
 He said, when Peter asked him, don't do that, don't go on the cross, he will have another arrangement.
 He said, go away from me, go to my back, go away from me, satan, because you're thinking what is of humans and not of God, things that are not from God.
 So you're preventing the plan of God, and that makes you like a satan, and all of us are satans, to the degree that we are against God, we are separated from God, and we become enemies of God.
 How is that possible? There are different types of this kind of alienation. We know that societies, there is free Christian society, like here in Taiwan, in most of Southeast Asia,
 or post-christian societies, like in Europe, in the United States, that people they used to be with Christ, and then they departed and they become even hostile to Christ and Christianity.
 And there is also a third type, that people pretend that they are Christians, but really they are not.
 This situation is, we can see in the book of Revelation, when there is the message to seven churches, to this church in Smyrna, the Lord says that I have one thing against you, tell right to the angel of the church of Smyrna.
 I have one thing against you, that you abandoned your first love, repent and go back to the deeds that you have done in the past, otherwise I will come and will remove your lampstand, and that will be the end for you.
 He will remove grace from this church, unless it repents. He doesn't say that you are heretic, or you are morally destroyed, you are doing something wrong.
 No, it's that we have lack of faith. And this is the majority of us, who are trying to be Christians, but we are far from healing. The way we live, the way we do.
 And there are several ways of departing from God, even without our notice. There are at least four ways.
 One is the faith, the content, what we believe. We know that there are different heresies, different wrong ways of thinking about Christ and God.
 This is one way, this teaching of the faith. Another one is moral life, virtuous life. It can become immoral, we can do many sins, get into passions, become arrogant, become greedy, all kinds of things.
 That's another way, moral separation from God. Another one is value or world view separation. For example, we love some kind of philosophy, we love materialism, or we love liberalism, or we love this self-centered humanism.
 That human in the center of everything, coming after Renaissance. Or we love something else, this mammonism, which is another name for capitalism, profit, money, that's most important, consumption, consumerism.
 Many different world views. Or maybe we love some modern philosopher, he becomes the teacher for us. Some people like Heidegger or something else, and this becomes their world view.
 No, our world view is the gospel. We need to go and find the world view directly from the gospel and the church, the holy church.
 The fourth type is that everything is fine, we don't do big sins, we don't do this, we believe in the right way. However, our faith becomes cool, not hot, not cold, it becomes warm.
 Not cold is when we are against. Hot is when we are really eager to do things for the Lord, that we live for Him every day.
 This is what He wants. He wants us to have this thought, faith, seeking from Him every time, in everything, putting Him in the center of our life.
 This is the way against apostasy, against this alienation. So let us find such a way of life, let us recover, let us inspire ourselves, asking these gifts coming from God.
 There are seven gifts we see mentioned in Isaiah chapter 11 verse 2. There is the Spirit of
 the Lord, the Spirit of knowing, the Spirit of wisdom, the Spirit of piety, the Spirit of strength,
 the Spirit of understanding. There are seven spirits which there are that we can
 we need to develop these spirits, we need to receive these gifts from the Lord.
 And in the same way when we lose the Lord there are different ways of losing him, okay. So we need
 to ask for a very pure simple heart because unless you become like children you will not enter into
 the kingdom of heaven. And to these Pharisees they were not like children, they already had
 institutions in place, the ways they run things, they have this system of
 rituals, this system of how they teach things, how they govern these people of Israel,
 everything is in place but there was no place for God, for leaving God anymore. They were wise,
 so he said to grow the father, I bless you, I thank you my father that you did not reveal this
 to the wise and those who understand, those who have reason but you reveal yourself to the
 children, to the babies, okay. Those who have wisdom and understanding they were deprived of
 real God, okay. And this is what we are lacking, we need to abandon all these I know things,
 I have experience, I know how to live my life, I can do it. No, we cannot do it, we cannot live
 without Christ. Our life is going to be a joke, it's going to be useless if it doesn't have Christ
 and the guidance of the Lord. So let us abandon this, let us break ourselves like an old person
 has to break himself to be thinking like child, okay. We already formed and we are
 like fixed and like wood, okay, a piece of wood. Now we need to become like the gentle and young
 sprout that is that can bend, we can open our hearts to the living God and have him live in it,
 drive us through our life. May the Lord give us such faith, give us such eagerness and be with us
 all the time that we are not in these apostas, we avoid all these tribulations and all this
 destruction that is coming, falling upon this world, I mean. May the Lord bless each and every
 one of you. One last thing that I want to say is that this world is demanding us to bow to Satan,
 that's also the apostasy that's happening. So it's not, it doesn't have to be open,
 go and say I'm rejecting Christ. No, but the way you do things, for example, you get a job offer
 that you need to cheat somebody or you need to slander or you need to do something which is
 against the faith. You choose that job because you want that money, okay, and you bow to Satan,
 that's this temptation that the satan said to Christ. If you bow to me, I will give you power
 over all these kingdoms, their glory and all of that, I will give you all of this power.
 This is behind every apostasy. When somebody was closer to God,
 he will gain this offer, he will get this offer from satan. Very often that happens. In politics,
 we know how dirty is the politics. You want to go up, you need to, I don't want to say that,
 to do some immoral things, to be promoted to the upper classes or you need to betray somebody,
 that people know that you're ready or you need to kill somebody. If you're in blood,
 they know that you belong to them and now everybody says after you graduate, how do you
 sell yourself? Sell yourself, okay, just think about it. You're a commodity that you sell,
 you become, you are owned by someone else and people do that, we all do that because we want
 money, we want some power, we want some enjoyment and this is bowing to satan, okay, satan. So,
 let us not have anything that is against our Christian conscience to live in truth,
 maybe not so rich, maybe not so wealthy but close to Christ, okay, that we avoid all those
 tribulations. We have many tribulations coming to the church, of course, these tribulations to
 the Israel, they were because of apostasy in the exile to Babylon, okay, they bowed to these foreign
 gods, also they wanted king and the Lord said to Samuel that they are not willing to have a king,
 they don't want me, okay, that's what's behind, it's another type of apostasy, okay, and later
 these Jews, the whole Israel, the temple is destroyed, they were scattered all around and
 killed, one-third of population was just murdered because they did not want God, okay, and later
 even Christian countries, we have those plaques and wars and many other things, natural disasters
 because it was tribulation for them and we know that from the prophecy of Christ himself and from
 the revelation that all those woes, all those disasters that will fall upon the world will be
 because people are away from God, they have alienated themselves on the whole humanity level,
 they have withdrawn, they don't want God, this counts as tribulations so that they can repent,
 so that they can repent, but most of them they're still not willing to repent, we can see that from
 the revelation and from the holy fathers who give us interpretation of those words, so let us
 be aware of that ourselves, be closer and closer to God because small apostasies, individual
 apostasies, they'll sum up to a bigger apostasy of the whole society, becomes immoral, becomes like
 Sodoma and Hamorah and then the Antichrist is using these trends, he cannot control like everyone,
 but these trends he will be using to control the whole world and we know this theory of
 Marx that capitalism has the alienation of people, of the workers from the capital,
 they're alienated systematically, that's how it's run, there is no other option,
 but now the new form of social structure that they are trying to implement is going to be alienation
 of person from himself and from God, from anything related to God, no matter if he knows it,
 he doesn't know, we know that many people they have a traditional culture which is closer to
 God's plan than the modern, this post-modernist culture, so alienating away from you yourself,
 your own conscience, your own character, alienating and alienating you from God and it's going to be
 done systematically to pave the way to the kingdom of Antichrist that is going to come eventually at
 some point, so let us be aware of that, let us ourselves see our own apostasy, repent and go back
 to the first love and do the deeds pertaining to the first love ministry to our Lord and to the
 people, I mean, may Lord give us such heart, the heart of babies and strong faith overcoming all
 temptations, I mean.
