 Dear brothers and sisters, I wish you a Happy New Year, and I also wish you Lord's blessing
 in this New Year on every good deed, to bring more fruit of faith, to strengthen in Christ,
 to open up new horizons in spiritual life.
 While we enter this New Year, everybody feels that there is something new about life, which
 is relative, right?
 But still there is this feeling that people have, and there are new expectations, expectations
 of something new that's gonna happen.
 We don't know what this year is gonna bring, we don't know what our life will be like by
 the end of this year.
 All of this, for some people, brings fear, for others, brings some intrigue, some expectation
 of something positive.
 But for us, it can remind us that we live in new life, we have a new being inside us,
 and we became a new creature after baptism, after entering the Holy Church.
 So this new life is some new form of existence, new way of thinking, new worldview.
 And this year, this New Year, we need to bridge new frontiers, set new goals.
 But to understand what is this all about, we need to see that there are two ways of
 transcending boundaries.
 There is one way of growth in Christ, and there is another way of being broken.
 When we break something, we also sort of go out, but this is wrong direction because we
 are broken and there is no hope for us if we are unable to be the vessel that the Holy
 Spirit can come to and can build up, and we cannot grow, we cannot do anything.
 So today I want to say how these two things are different.
 The Lord, He said that at this time, I have still more things to tell you, but you are
 unable to embrace.
 So He said He will send the Holy Spirit that will come down and teach disciples everything.
 So we always have this feeling that it's not enough.
 We still want to get closer to God.
 We still are lacking His wisdom.
 We want more.
 We're lacking virtue, we're lacking many things, and we are willing to transcend our old way
 of thinking, our old way of doing things.
 We're open to this newness, to this renewal, if you wish.
 However this renewal is not the worldly renewal reset or breach of conscience when people's
 hearts, minds are hacked.
 What is the difference?
 First of all, where does this wrong breach come from?
 So there are two problems with the old man that we have.
 One problem is that we are very limited in the way we see things.
 We know that sometimes the whole society thinks in the same way.
 They watch news, they listen to each other.
 It's like a shell, and you live in that shell, and you cannot go out.
 Internet doesn't help.
 There is something lacking that's keeping you in this shell, like in developed countries
 there is one shell, in others like India there is another shell.
 Each caps you belong to, that's your shell.
 Anytime when we don't have access to Christ, we are in some kind of shell.
 We know sometimes after a certain age people get so much fixed on the way they see things
 that you cannot do anything about it.
 That's one problem.
 There is another problem, which is maybe even worse, that people break out from this, especially
 young people, some new trends, fashion, music or something else, and it's sort of making
 you think differently, innovate, innovation, think outside of the box and all those things.
 This breaks your world view and you think of something new.
 This comes from some passions, but this is why they call it enlightenment, it was this
 period of enlightenment, and the devil is trying to mimic what God is doing, so he is
 also willing to tell you "Oh, you are enlightened, now you are a new trend, you are a new generation,
 you are a new something, you are up to date with the wave of this world".
 And that's true, you become, you are embracing the wisdom of this world, which is only in
 quotes wisdom, it's foolishness.
 For God, for Christ, this is madness, he really has a domination towards this thing.
 So we should distinguish these things.
 So for example, when you look at some bad things, watch some bad movies, be it violence,
 be it horror, be it something bad, it seems like enlightenment, "Oh, it's something new,
 you never experienced this before, it's something fresh".
 This is also, you are breaking something good inside yourself, and you are receiving this
 new sort of new, it's nothing new actually, after a few times you will see it's nothing,
 it's empty thing.
 But at that moment you thought that it's something new, it's breaking your limits.
 But these are two things, transcending, what are you transcending, how are you transcending.
 And there are two sources of this brokenness, this something that comes and breaks you.
 First it can be patience, despondency, grief, you have some depression, you cannot think
 about things in a normal way, you are lost, you are broken.
 Or be it greed, you have greed, you are thinking about money, some person is a source of money
 for you.
 You cannot see the whole picture, you just have that thing.
 Or lust, you see somebody, just a piece of meat, you don't, just carnal thinking, you
 cannot think outside of this picture.
 Be it vainglory, when you want to show off, any passion, some strong passion is making
 you see things only from a certain angle.
 Your worldview is broken to pieces, you have that clip mind.
 And that's what is happening with us today.
 And that's coming from the fall of Adam, Adam when he sinned, he left God, and he saw these
 wild animals, they can kill me, he saw that he is naked himself, he saw many things, it's
 sort of some kind of knowledge that he gained, but it's fake, because it was lost, his relationship,
 his union with God was lost, the wisdom that God gave him, he lost it.
 So this worldly wisdom, it seems to be like wisdom, but it's not, it's madness.
 Another example of how passions break your conscience, like a young child, small child,
 he knows his father, and he perceives his father as a whole, as his guide, someone who
 loves him, who educates him, who has more knowledge, more experience than he does, he
 knows that he's bigger, he's always interested in what father will say, because father is
 much more knowledgeable, his inner world is richer than chance, but someone else may know
 also that father, maybe some other person, whom the father owes money, and that person
 would just know, oh, that guy, he just owes me this and that, and I know that he has property,
 he has this and that, and okay, he has those calculations, and this is the perspective
 that he has, and of course he doesn't care about personality, what inner world, and things
 like that, and for him that's just economical agent, and maybe moral agent, he knows some
 of his moral traits, and the knowledge maybe is very wrong.
 But he thinks that this is wisdom, and it seems to be like wisdom, to get more money
 that may be smart, but that is for the Lord, he really hates that kind of perspective,
 that kind of worldview.
 So this older guy, he may be more educated, more knowledgeable, more experienced, but
 he is not like that child, and Christ said, you need to become like children, otherwise
 you won't enter into the kingdom of heaven.
 If you have that grown up mind, no, you won't enter into the kingdom of heaven.
 So that is the mind, this worldly wisdom that we gain, and I really wish that in this new
 year we are not getting new worldly wisdom, we are dumping all unnecessary stuff that
 we have already, and we are gaining wisdom in Christ.
 And another reason why our mind can be broken is not only passions, but also some things
 coming through technology.
 It may be TikTok that is breaking your mind, you watch it every time, you become nervous,
 you have some problems.
 It may be some ads that we see commercials, can be anything that we are bombarded with
 all kinds of stuff, images, they have a lot of technologies, NLP technologies that can
 program you, that can influence you.
 They will study your mind through big data, through collecting, knowing who you are, through
 all those AI technologies, and that also will be breaking your mind and your conscience.
 And all of that is also sort of breaking the old, bringing you to something new, but this
 new is just broken, it's not really something good and something that builds you up.
 So we are looking to find another wisdom.
 And how do we distinguish this wisdom, this renewal that's coming from Christ, from that
 so-called renewal coming from the world?
 Well, the renewal coming from Christ is building your inner self, you become healthier, you
 gain a more united perception of this world, of your mission in this world, you gain love
 of Christ, you become more humble and willing to serve Christ, less egoistic.
 But with that worldly wisdom or this renewal coming, it is breaking your new man, it's
 breaking anything good in yourself, making you sick spiritually.
 And it's building up your ego, your worldliness, the old you, the animal you inside yourself.
 It's contributing to that.
 So that is a sign that that renewal or any kind of wisdom is fake, it's false, it's worldly,
 it's destructive.
 We had in the past many pictures of the world's worldview.
 We had the catholic scholastic one, we had the enlightenment one, the scientific worldview,
 we had this modern worldview, capitalist worldview, and now it's like postmodern, posthumanism,
 which is actually really primitive, really basic.
 It's not a development, it's a degradation.
 And also we may have worldview in the church, we may have this rosy, orthodox worldview,
 we can have a very superficial worldview about Christian life, church life, we can have all
 kinds of limitations, not only on individual level, but even on a group level.
 So all these things we need to transcend in Christ, to really ask that He gives us His
 wisdom to reality, not to this material world reality, which is very secondary, but to spiritual
 reality and make us see things comprehensively, spiritual things.
 To be able to grasp this spiritual reality in people, to see their personality as image
 of God, to have this respect and interest into every single individual person.
 Because He is in God's image, and even see God, maybe know more about God Himself through
 communicating with people, and we will be reaching this new knowledge, new experience
 if we grow in Christ.
 I really hope that this year we can reach these two goals.
 One goal is to restore broken self, that's broken into pieces, passions by this technological
 stuff, and also not only regain ourselves, but also grow in Christ, reach new limits,
 obtain new goals, new wisdom in Christ.
 May the Lord give us this blessing, guide us, teach us humbleness, teach us all kinds
 of virtue, and help us be His witnesses to this world.
 I mean, may His kingdom come and His will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
 I mean, happy new year and God bless.
