 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas to all of you. Today I am in Tainan and
 tonight we will have a baptism here in the ocean. This is our first baptism in
 Tainan and tomorrow we will have a celebration, Christmas Eve celebration in
 Kaohsiung, also in the south of Taiwan. These holidays they bring joy, they bring expectation of the Savior coming into this world. And it's a time of strict fasting and we
 know that during strict fasting there are temptations that are coming and this
 year also there are temptations who came upon the whole Church. I think this
 is a matter of the whole Orthodox Church that we hear this news regarding Africa.
 And today it is unfortunate but I need to talk about unpleasant things during
 this time because lead us not into temptation. We need to avoid any
 temptations and I just want to share my view on this topic, on this matter which
 just happened. This decision was made just a few days ago and there is a lot
 of discussion and there is a lot of attempts to demonize the Russian Church.
 And this is why it's important for us to think about it, to pray about it, to pray
 that the problem doesn't become worse, that the Lord can guide his Church in the
 right direction and give the wisdom and right decisions to those who make these
 decisions. Well, there are two positions. What I'm talking about? I'm talking about
 the Russian Church receiving the clergy in Africa from Patriarchate of
 Alexandria. The clergy that wants to join, who don't support the decision of
 Patriarch of Alexandria to support those schismatics in Ukraine, those hostile
 and politicized people who call themselves Orthodox who were recently
 accepted by Constantinople. And this was an attempt to legalize these schismatics
 which created a lot of tensions and people using violence to take churches
 and great confusion, great pain in Ukraine, in the hearts of millions of
 faithful. So this is a really big and serious problem that will have these
 ripple effects for many years, maybe many centuries even. So we need to
 think about this and what happened now is one of those effects. I'm
 now in the station, on the train station, so they have some announcements.
 I hope it doesn't affect sound too much. So there are two positions about what was
 done. In one position, which both are wrong, my view. The first position says
 that this is wrong. What was done by Russian Church is violence against
 violence. This violence was done by Constantinople, now it's a retaliation.
 So it's non-canonical, it's breaking all the rules of the church. It is not
 Christian because it's retaliation. If you don't do that, you need to submit your
 other cheek when you're hit in one cheek. And other criticism. So this is
 one position. Another position is the opposite. It says that it was the right
 decision and it is a very good thing that happened. This right
 decision because, well, because if you don't do it, they will invade some other
 places and it will be worse and worse and worse. And now it's done, so it's very
 good. Many problems in Africa will be solved because there was a big problem
 with bishops not living in Africa and not really caring much for the African
 people. There was this segregation, higher class foreigners, Greeks and lower class
 black Africans. And many other problems. Using some goods to attract
 people. Many other unhealthy things. So now this will be all solved because Russia
 came and the mission will develop and many things will develop. So this is
 another position which is also wrong to my view. The third position, which I
 think is right, and I don't impose my view on everybody, okay, this is just my
 view, and I think we will know what is right after many years, maybe centuries, with the
 guidance of the Holy Spirit. When we see the fruits of what is done today and what happens now, it will bring its fruits, good or
 bad, after centuries, maybe. And then we can be able to say if it was the right
 decision or the wrong one. But now we can say what came from our perspective
 today. So it may be wrong. I'm not insisting that this is the only right decision. We've discussed it with many priests and even
 priests have different opinions about this. Even Russian priests. But after all
 these discussions, this is the conclusion that I arrived to. I'm just sharing with you my view, my conclusion to this day. If it will
 change, I will also tell you that my view has changed. But now I see it as this,
 that this, what was done, is given the situation, which is very radical, and
 it's an extreme, it's an emergency situation. Given the situation, what was
 done is right, what was done by the Rafkurt, opening these two diocese in
 Africa and receiving those flourishes. It was the right decision, but what happened is a
 bad thing, okay? What happened is a bad thing. We would rather not have it, okay?
 But it will be even worse if it doesn't, if it wouldn't happen, okay? So why am I
 saying this? First of all, this is not retaliation against re-knowledge, violence against violence.
 This is like you're being robbed, you're being robbed and you do something, okay?
 So you're robbing someone else, you're robbing him, but you protect, you do
 something to stop him, okay? Maybe you need even some, you know, that gas thing that you use to make him stop what he's doing.
 He's possessed by that power, he wants to steal your stuff, he wants to rob you, he wants to maybe kill you, okay?
 So you do that, it is something to stop. There is a view that, okay, it has to be the whole Orthodox Church, they need to get together, they need to say, "Oh, Alexandra is wrong, Alexandra is schismatic."
 And only then you can do something in Africa, okay? Well, this logic is wrong because we don't have anyone, any big council saying that Rome is heretic and is schismatic.
 We don't have such council, but for a thousand years it's already, we're waiting for such council for one thousand years already, but nothing, okay?
 And still we know that they're heretics, it's common knowledge for everyone, for Orthodox.
 And also the saints, the saints, during centuries, they saw that this is a Pharisee already, it's harmful.
 So it was proven by over long term, long run, that that was the right decision at that time to cut with the Catholics, okay?
 So otherwise it would be the whole thing is spoiled in the whole church.
 So at this time we also don't have opportunity to gather this council.
 And if you're being robbed, you don't have time to call police and to wait for police or to wait for some committee to come and say, "Oh yes, he's robbing your house, so now let's do matters."
 No, you need to decide on the spot, what do you do, because they don't use any commission, they just do just rob you, okay?
 This is what is done by Constantinople and Alexandria.
 Okay, and also another thing is that, well, it's breaking canons, so it's breaking canons.
 But when there is extreme situation, for example, somebody is dying, we do baptism in a non-canonical way.
 We can use sand, we don't have water, we use sand to baptize.
 It can be done not by priests, it can be done by laypersons, it can be done by even non-orthologs who do it if needed.
 And it's recognized by the church and it's necessary to do it, not just can do it, it's necessary to do that, because we're hoping that a person can be baptized before he dies.
 So, this is another situation that's explaining that, well, yes, it's needed to avoid the canons at some time, to do something contrary, not obeying the canons.
 And this is an exception which actually proves canons.
 Not any exception can be also justifying the rules themselves, proving that the rules are right.
 So, maybe this is a situation like this.
 So, at this point, Africa is just a few hundred priests. Ukraine is very big. Ukraine has maybe 15-20 thousand priests and much more faithful, tens of millions of faithful.
 So, right now, it is not a struggle for Africa, this is a struggle for protecting the Church of Ukraine, which is being harmed big time by those decisions of Constantinople and Alexandria.
 So, this is like robbers and intruders, what they do, and you need to do something, you cannot just watch. You need to do something to stop them from expanding this project, from calling other churches to accept these mandates, or for invading something else.
 Something has to be done to stop that. So, the question is, what will happen next? What will this bring us to?
 And I'm feeling that it's not going to be solved in a few years.
 This is a conflict that's going to take decades, maybe centuries, and maybe it won't be solved ever.
 So, the situation that we have is showing us that darkness in this world is overcoming, and it's influencing the Church so much.
 The Church now is very big, has a lot of people, and that's why it's quite attached to this world. It's influenced too much by politics, by money, by many things.
 And this is the reality. We need to overcome these problems, but they are there.
 And what else is going to happen? Most likely it will become just similar to what we have in South America, in North America, in Asia, where there are these parallel jurisdictions.
 There are different patriarchates, they open parishes, which directly belong to the jurisdictions.
 This is bad. This is nothing good. But this is the outcome of our weakness. This is the reality that we live in.
 So, we cannot do much about it at this point. So, most likely this is what's going to happen with Africa.
 So, the Lord gave Alexandria this opportunity to be responsible for the fall of Africa. That happened in the 1930s, actually.
 Before the 1930s, the patriarch of Alexandria was responsible for Egypt, just small Egypt.
 But after that, in 1930, that's the recent time, before Africa became under Alexander the better.
 It had this chance to have the whole big continent under him, if he would not create what he's done, if he would not do what he's done with Ukraine.
 So, this was a big mistake by the patriarch of Alexandria. I think the greatest sin is there.
 And as an outcome of that, now we will lose this structure that is supposed to be.
 Gave one patriarch, one bishop in some diocese, and everybody under this bishop.
 Different churches can send people, but they all coordinate, they're all under this local bishop.
 We won't have it now in Africa, from now on. Maybe it will be like that forever. We'll see.
 Let us pray that the Lord doesn't allow any further splits, any acceleration of this conflict, of the weakening of the church.
 That we will be one united in love. At the end of the day, it's us people, we need to love each other, we need to love everyone else.
 We need not to judge anyone. Please avoid judging people.
 But we need to pray for the church. We need to ask the Lord to really come and abide in us.
 Especially now, during this Christmas time. May the Lord give you wisdom, love, and help during these holy days.
 Merry Christmas to every one of you, and God bless.
