 Dear brothers and sisters, after the Holy Christmas we enter into a very special
 time. Before the Epiphany is the time of Christmas blessing. We feel that the Lord
 just came to this world. He brought salvation, He brought new hope, new
 opportunities for us. He is renewing the whole world, and we also enter the new
 year, so we also have a feeling of something new. And when we have this
 feeling of renewal, and we will have it even further by the baptism, on the time
 of baptism of Christ, the Epiphany, which will be on January 19th, we feel that we
 also have this renewal going on in us. And while having this renewal it is
 good to think about how do we look at this world. And there are three basic
 attitudes that people have. Generally we can be either optimistic about future,
 that the world is developing, humanity is becoming more wise, more educated, we have
 better technologies, we discover new things. And there is the pessimistic
 view that things become worse and worse, and morals are deteriorating, people go
 away from church, from God, and things become worse and worse. People
 become more jealous, serve mammon, and many other things which are also true. So
 we might feel that everything is just going downhill. And there is a
 view, let's call it the Hindu view, that everything is just changing, but
 it's all the same. Buddhist also. That it's flowing, flowing, but
 basically people are the same, people's sins are the same, the way
 the world runs is about the same, nothing really changes. So these are three
 basic attitudes that people have. And us, gay Christians, when we think about these
 things, we need to first of all remember that there is a spiritual war that is
 going on, and we are participating in this war. And in every war there is
 time when we are winning, and there is time when we are losing, or the army
 is losing, even though we are trying to win, but the army is losing. So we
 need to see this first of all on my individual level. Am I fighting well? Am I
 doing the right thing that the Lord is expecting from me? Am I trained well? Am I
 in good shape, okay, suitable for this war? This is the most important, it's much
 more important than the whole world, what's happening with the whole world,
 what's happening with you. But having said this, we also don't object to
 thinking about the big picture, the big picture, even on the whole global
 picture, what is happening in this world overall. And we are taught by the
 Bible to think about these things, because the Bible tells us about the
 beginning of the world, the end of the world, about these many centuries,
 what happened, how the plan of God has developed. So we live through this
 during every liturgy, we experience this. So for us this big picture is also
 important, not only my own salvation, my own spiritual situation. So the
 whole picture, where the world is going to, what state is it in right now, who are
 the main players, what's going on, all these things we need to think about,
 and it's fine to think about it. We just have to become not obsessed
 about this, don't have any phobias, things like that. And don't forget that me,
 my own internal world is the seed of God's Word growing in me, that's much
 more important. Well, when we think about this big picture, this is what I
 want to talk about today. We know about these notions of invisible hand of the
 market. We know this from economics, that there is this hand that no
 government, no company makes a plan what to do, but the market does its own thing.
 I don't need to talk about it in much detail. There is invisible hand in other
 things. In globalization things, the world is changing around us due to
 lowering of tariffs and trade and technologies and things like that. And
 it's not, it's a little bit chaotic, it's not controlled by anyone. We don't
 see who this is controlled by. We see, for example, some trends in social life.
 The new generation is changing, it's different from this generation. Our
 generation is different from the previous generation, the way people
 think, people behave. It's different in something. In something, of course, all
 humans are the same, but in some things people are different. We cannot
 explain it just by some factors. It's because of this, this, this. There is some
 invisible hand behind it. We can say that, also behind these changes. How is
 it done? Okay, we can say, well, what does it have to do with me? I mean, I'm
 not a sociologist, I'm not an economist. Well, there is a very direct
 relationship. The Lord wants us to know what's happening. Among the seven
 spirits that Isaiah, the prophet, he received, the seven spirits of God, they
 signify seven talents that we receive from the Holy Spirit. And among those
 seven spirits, there is the spirit of knowledge. The spirit of knowledge is
 distinguished from the spirit of wisdom and from other spirits. Today I want to
 say a bit about this. The spirit of knowledge gives us understanding,
 knowledge about many things, about nature of things, about nature of
 processes that are going on in this world. So we should not be ignorant,
 say, oh, it's not my responsibility, it's my responsibility only in my little
 world. The Lord wants you to know things. Maybe you will need it to help
 others. And we can be taught by him directly. We, of course, study, we need to
 educate ourselves, even in secular sciences. This is fine, but we can gain
 even more through this divine revelation. And it's a revelation about
 many things. Not only about purely spiritual things, but about things that
 relate to this world. Our faith is very much intertwined with this world. We see
 the whole Old Testament and most of the New Testament. It's a built-in history,
 real people, real events. It's not just some ideas or some concepts, what to do,
 what not to do. We're incarnated religion. We're incarnated faith. We're
 completely incarnate to this world, to its history, to individual people.
 So it is good for us to know things, what is going on. And unfortunately,
 majority of people, they don't think about this, even Christians. We just live
 because we just live, the days go by, we do our job, we do what we are supposed to do.
 Some people survive to be able to make it through this life. And they think,
 "Why should I bother to think about it?" Well, hopefully we can surpass this level.
 Because even people who are not Christians, they know things behind, some of them, smart ones.
 They know things behind the scene, behind the news. They understand more because of education,
 because they're smart. So we Christians, we need to know even more than they know.
 How can we know? At least we need to know that there are plans. There are plans. Like I've
 mentioned, these invisible hands. Some of these invisible hands, they are invisible to us because
 we don't know how to get these principles behind them. For example, economics. We haven't studied
 economics. I have, but not many people have. If they would have studied it, they would know more,
 they would understand more. They would not say, "It's just invisible, it just happens."
 They can understand what is behind it. In the same way, we can say that there are people who
 are very influential, who are developing their plans. And they don't tell you about their plans.
 They just go and do it. Corporations, to make money, they need to keep many things in secret.
 They analyze their customers, they analyze you, how you behave, how you would react to some product,
 for example, that they will put on the market or do something else. They know everything. Well,
 not everything, but they know a lot of things and they do things. And you're just passive. You just
 receive what they've done and you react in a predictable way, usually. So not only corporations,
 there are people who have great influence on this world and on what is happening in this world.
 And today, I don't want to talk about whether there are some people who have one big master
 plan and they go by this plan or there are none. There are just groups of very powerful
 people who do some things. Very often you don't hear about many things in the news,
 but the reality changes. And it's not just changing because chance just happened to be so.
 It changes because people have made this change. They've planned and they've executed this change.
 And it's not some conspiracy. Well, you can call it conspiracy, but any plan that you don't tell
 to others is a conspiracy. So there is nothing wrong about being a conspirologist. You just
 want to know what plans of those people are. So we can say that this is one level, but there are two
 other levels, at least two other levels of planning. One level is the planning of God.
 The God does have a master plan because he's one, God is one, and he has one plan. One beginning of
 the world, one world, one plan. One end of this plan. So God has his plan and this plan is beyond
 anyone else's comprehension. We cannot completely understand this plan. It's a mystery. And there
 is a plan of devil because devil is also one. He's one guy. So he's got his goals and he is spiritual
 and he knows many things about many people and he can use many people as his instruments to achieve
 this plan. So sometimes, for example, some things like everybody is getting obsessed with mammon,
 serving riches, comfort, consumption, egoistic self-being and many other tendencies that happen
 in this world. You can say, is it some bunch of people planning like that? Maybe yes, maybe no.
 But the devil is behind that and he is using people's sins and passions to push everyone
 according to that plan. So even if these bad guys who have big power who are out there are not in
 full agreement with themselves, there is one guy behind all of them who is in agreement with
 himself and he is developing this big his own master plan against God, against the plan of God.
 So sometimes it may seem that the darkness is overcoming. It's overwhelming everything.
 But this is not so. Because the plan of God is beyond and it's smarter than the God
 who outplays the devil. And this is why we need to always remember about this. And the holy people
 tell us that this world had one beginning and it will have one end. And beginning is good because
 he's coming from God. So the end also must be good. It's also from God. He is alpha and omega,
 beginning and the end. So it's not that the whole plan failed and the Lord created this world,
 but it all failed. We don't believe in such God that always fails. So even though that it may seem
 to us, to our chicken brain, that we think that things are going bad and it's all being destroyed,
 no. So we need to know about this and we need to know that there is this plan of God that is
 above the plan of devil. And a very good example of what I'm talking about is what happened with
 Jesus Christ. Because there were people who conspired against him. There was the betrayer,
 the Judas, there were these chief priests and scribes, lawyers of the Jews who also had their
 own conspiracy to kill Christ. And there was this pilot, this Pontius pilot who did not conspire,
 he was just driven by his passion, he wanted power and he's done what he was asked to do,
 to preserve his power. Okay, so he also was involved in killing Christ. So all these people,
 we see that they have different goals and they are quite different agenda, different types of people,
 but all of them, they were put together by one, by devil, to accomplish the will of devil. And the
 will of the devil, the plan of devil was to kill Christ, to get rid of him, that he would not teach
 people and he would not accomplish his plan and to make everybody feel that it's a domination.
 He was humbled. What kind of God is that? Everybody else, all the people would
 not believe such a God. So that was all the plan of Satan. But the Lord, he used that for higher
 goal, for trampling death by death, for bringing salvation through his resurrection. So it is not,
 of course, it doesn't mean that he approved what was done by Judas or the scribes, the chief
 priests. He said that they will be condemned and that it would be better for them not to be born
 at all. But he allowed this to happen and he overthrew devil through this death. And
 we can see here all these three levels. And a similar thing happens in our time with this world,
 with the history of this world, with what's happening today, with all kinds of crises,
 medical, economic, political, with many things. There are also these three levels. There is the
 lower level, which is what we see in the news and in the statistics, what's happening, that's public
 knowledge, that everybody knows about. This level is even below and very often it's far away from
 reality. And it's just sometimes a picture or some play that the people are manipulated, that they
 would think something else. So this is another level, which most people unfortunately are on
 that level. So let us be wise, let us look behind what's happening, let us be very positive about
 the future and let us be winners on the battlefield that we personally are involved in.
 We have to get into this battle and overthrow the enemy every day, day by day. May the Lord
 give us strength, strengthen our faith, give us wisdom and guidance and overthrow all enemies
 who are waging war against us and him and me. God bless. Merry Christmas.
