 brothers and sisters, I'm now in Sri Lanka, in a place called Matara. This is the very
 south tip of the island. The family is the Indian Ocean. And today we have the first
 Sri Lankan baptized ottuks. Let me tell you a little bit about the mission here. The ultimate
 mission here was begun about three years ago by Father George Maximov, who came here. And
 during these three years he spoke to the person who got baptized, his name is Andrew. Please
 pray for him. And they were communicating during all those three years, getting ready
 for becoming ottuks. And eventually, today, all this work brought fruit that Andrew gave
 ottuks. And I believe that this is only the beginning of the mission here, the beginning
 of the future mission advances. And tomorrow I will travel to the middle of the island
 to the place called Hurunigala. And there the pastor of the big unity for Protestant
 will become ottuks. Maybe not all of them will be baptized this time, but their preparation
 is ongoing. We're planning to visit many locations across the island, talking to ministers,
 to people who are about to become ottuks or interested or willing. And at this point it's
 more than 100 people are ready. Well, the church here developed Hurunigala, because
 of the current year old Catholics, of Catholics in the 16th century, Portuguese. They were
 already in Malabar Church here. And the Malabar Church we know was established by the same
 pastor, Thomas Eden. We don't know when they arrived here to Sri Lanka, but they arrived
 here. Importantly the Malabar Church later went into Paris. And we are not sure if there
 was any presence here ever, but now there are very good prospects. The mission comes
 with many temptations. Just yesterday, I had a fever. I think it was not COVID, I don't
 know all the symptoms, just heat and I felt very tired, not very much. I was even thinking
 that maybe the project would be better. Father George wrote yesterday that he also experienced
 something like this in the past. He is over the event of doing something in the morning,
 but it's delicious for overcoming. I think somebody prayed for me, very strongly for
 me. Today morning I wake up and nothing, the fever is gone, I have normal temperature,
 I feel well. And today, early morning, Andrew Holzman is saying that we need to have baptism
 right here in this Indian Ocean. Please pray for the future of the mission here, for Andrew,
 for the mission in every country, which still doesn't have a future, because such countries
 are still out there, like Sri Lanka. May the Lord bless every one of us, now on this time
 of Epiphany, of the baptism of the Lord Himself, that we begin to believe in the mission here
 in Sri Lanka, which is glory. I will also keep you updated from Purunigala, the place
 where I will go, and everything will be successful. Thank you.
