 Dear brothers and sisters, we have entered the Great Land, and there is a very important condition for any prayer, any fasting, any sacrifice that we may make towards God.
 And very often we forget about it, and then we have problems. During the first week we fail. If we really try to go through fasting, we will see by the end of this first week that we are unable to do it.
 We fail, we have weaknesses. Our will is weak. We have all kinds of passions living inside us, dragging us in a different direction. If we are serious about fasting, we will discover it.
 Well, one of the reasons is what I will say right now. Another reason is that we are too proud and arrogant, we think that we can do things.
 I just decide, okay, now it's Great Land, I do it, and we think it will be my achievement, I will have some progress, we will come closer to God. We think too much about ourselves, that we are capable of something.
 But we need to fulfill this. And also as a result we become humble, we have repentance that I cannot do. Without Christ, without His saving grace, I cannot do anything.
 We discover God through seeing our weakness, through seeing that we perish, we go to hell if we don't change something about us, and the Lord doesn't give His grace and healing to us.
 So this is what happens during the first week. And this spiritual condition is very important because any prayer, it's not only during the Great Land, but any prayer. And this is very well analyzed by Saint Nicholas Cavassila,
 one of the greatest saints of the Church, who lived in the 14th century, and he wrote a very brilliant book about Divine Liturgy.
 In this book he says that in the beginning of the Liturgy we say "In peace let us pray to the Lord." And this is a condition for all other prayers, that we pray in peace.
 And this we just sleep, we go all in peace, and so on. We don't think deeply what it means. But without this peace we cannot pray anything else.
 If we pray, our prayers are not received by God. It just goes out there, just sound.
 So today I want to think together with you about this "In peace."
 Well, Saint Nicholas, he says that there are actually four steps to prayer.
 Only if we go through all these steps we can begin. The fourth step is actually the prayer, the petition, when we ask something from the Lord.
 We ask, for example, for forgiveness, "Have mercy on us, Lord, have mercy." This is petition already, this is asking something from the Lord.
 But in order for us to be able to ask this, we need to go through three other steps, which are before that.
 Which are these steps? The first step is glorification of God. That's why the Divine service begins with the words, "Blessed is the kingdom of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages."
 This is our blessing, our glorification of the Lord's kingdom.
 Why glory? Why glorification is the first beginning? Because when we encounter God in prayer, when we stand in front of Him, the first thing is we encounter Him intuitively.
 We understand His might, His glory, His transcending all our comprehension, His beauty, majesty.
 This is the first impression that we have when we come closer to Him, we stand in front of Him in the prayer.
 So, this first encounter, this is the first, we are surprised, we are terrified by this mind.
 And we, as an answer to this, reaction to this, we glorify Him.
 So, this is the first, first what we do.
 When we continue our dialogue, we call it, our facing Him, we continue facing Him, the second part is our, we discover His grace, His benevolence, His love towards this world and towards us.
 This is the second, the second thing that we discover when we go one step ahead.
 And as a reaction to this is our gratitude, our gratitude to Him, we thank Him.
 So, this also, okay, also this happens because we see at the same time that we are unworthy, that we are dirty, that we are sinful.
 And despite all this, He still is willing to talk to us, He gives us this opportunity to be in front of Him, He gives us this life and He helps us.
 Okay, so this also reinforces this gratitude.
 And we also see ourselves as sinners, as being far away from Him. And this brings to us repentance, the third part, repentance and confession of our sins, of our sinful nature.
 So, this is the third reaction, the third step that has to be there. And only after that, when we understand this, we feel this, we ask something from Him, we ask first from Him, His mercy.
 This is the first petition. And then we ask other things. First spiritual, more important, and then also physical, some help in this life.
 But this first initial petition, Lord have mercy, also is petition of prisoners, of those who are condemned.
 When you are convicted in the court, the only thing, when you know that it's for your fault, you're guilty, you know that it is proven, you just ask, please have mercy on me.
 This is what we ask from the Lord, the first petition, that He doesn't see our sins, but He gives us, He grants us His mercy and forgiveness.
 So, this is the first petition. And then we ask for other things. We ask for His help in the Great Land. We ask for His blessing to our life, guidance in spiritual life, in daily life.
 And we ask for other helps in this physical life when we need it. So, all of that is followed after these four steps. This is part of these four-step petitions, when we already begin dialogue with God about something.
 Without this, it's impossible to be heard by the Lord. All our prayers is nothing, it's in vain. And the Great Land is going to be in vain.
 So, why peace? Why peace? What about peace? Well, Saint Nicholas tells us that only people who have gratitude towards the Lord and who have confession of their sins, only they have peace with themselves in their heart and with people and with God.
 So, we can see that when we are unhappy about our life, about something that happens, now the whole world is going crazy.
 It's war, we have economic crisis, people lose jobs, refugees, deaths. Of course, we have our daily problems, daily life. We're unsatisfied with what we have, with what we see, with everything.
 This dissatisfaction means that we don't have gratitude for what is given to us. We think we're deserving something better.
 So, this lack of gratitude brings us into this conflict and tension. And we cannot have peace inside ourselves if we are unhappy, we have grudges, we have complaints about this life.
 So, it is only when we pull this away and we are thankful to God for everything, then we can have peace.
 And also, if our conscience is unclean, if we either have some sins that we feel we've done and what we have right now, or our conscience is maybe destroyed, already burnt out, so we don't have it.
 But still, we don't have confession, we don't acknowledge ourselves as sinners, as ones who need forgiveness. We cannot have peace in ourselves, we cannot have peace in our heart.
 So, confession is also included in this "Peace, in peace let us pray to the Lord". So, we must have this gratitude and confession, repentance, in order to have peace in our hearts.
 And only with this peace we can do something for the Lord. If today you don't have peace, this day is wasted. Or maybe it is harming you even more. If you don't have peace, the land, you don't eat meat, you don't eat this, you don't eat that, you read long prayers, it's all for nothing.
 It's just for nothing. So, let us think deeply about this. Let us quickly go and confess our sins and bring peace between us and the Lord and in our hearts and with other people.
 That's why we have the forgiveness Sunday. We also want to have peace with everybody, we have to forgive everybody and everything. So, this peace with people, with God, with ourselves, this is the condition for us to enter into the path of the Great Land and to really come to salvation.
 Without this there is no salvation, it's hell. So, this is the only way. It's not just something nice that we can have. No, this is the only way.
 So, let us think deeply about this, revise our way we pray, the way we fast, the way we treat what's going on in the world right now, and then we can really be with God and do something meaningful for Him and for this world.
 May the Lord give you peace, give you wisdom, give you success and growth in spiritual life during this Great Land.
 Amen. God bless.
