 Dear brothers and sisters, today I'm again in Taizhou, we just had the Divine Service here,
 and we've talked with our faithful Taiwanese, this great land, who will have four Taiwanese faithful catechumens baptized.
 This is very good development here in Taizhou.
 Today, during these holy days of the land, I want to say about the prayer,
 because we are encouraged to pray more during these days, to get closer.
 As King Jehoshaphat, he set his faith in front of the Lord.
 When he heard that there is an army approaching, that they're going to destroy them, he turned to the Lord.
 He proclaimed that everybody has to fast, and he prayed from his heart to the Lord.
 So now it's also this time when we set our faith in front of the Lord,
 we turn away from all other things, we leave them aside,
 and we focus on talking with him and praying and fasting as an addition to our prayer,
 as an intensifying, showing, "Lord, see, I'm even suffering for you, for your name's sake, I want you to hear me."
 During this time, what I want to share with everyone is the risk of formalism in our relationship with God.
 This is a problem of our time. Even with other people, we have a very formal way of speaking.
 We have all kinds of bureaucratic language in our day-to-day conversation.
 Are we not supposed to notify you of some issue that would possibly happen?
 Our language, we don't say very simple, "Should I tell you that this should happen?"
 No, we have all those structures.
 Our language, especially if it's someone we're not very close to, some person we've just met,
 our language is full of this chancellery, this formal, it's dead language, it's a burden.
 We might think that it's because of high culture, but actually it's not.
 It's sort of using some elegant and some noble language, but it is not high culture.
 This is only mimicking this culture. It's like a monkey that's mimicking God.
 The devil is mimicking God.
 So it looks like very sort of high class and sophisticated, but it's fake.
 We can see that it's surrogate for something real.
 So we bring this into the church, we bring this into our relationship with God.
 And this we can see it in the Old Testament.
 We have this problem when the priests, they had so many different things, they accumulated.
 The problem is what?
 The problem is the church goes through many different situations.
 In the Old Testament, the Old Testament church had a very rich experience, life with God.
 So we have the Psalms of David, we have so many writings of prophets, prayers, for many different occasions.
 We have traditions of holy people and eventually it became so valuable, so valuable, precious.
 But sometimes people who just come, they are unable to see what is what, what is for.
 And why Abraham was able just to pray to God without temple, without so many different rituals, sacrifices, without all that stuff.
 But eventually the Levi, the priest, the Lord is telling, they were busy running to the temple and they did not care about that person who was wounded, was lying there.
 And only this good Samaritan who came merciful and showed mercy.
 So they forgot about the poor, the commandments of God.
 And in the same way we can, with accumulating so much of the pressures, prayer, liturgy, teaching, theology, tradition, we can sleep the poor and the most important.
 So this risk is what I want to talk about because some people, they also come to the church and they say, well, I hear so many prayers.
 It's all jammed together and it's quite formal.
 And this is indeed something that we need to work on.
 OK, instead of putting, there is this temptation to say more prayers, but somebody puts more prayers into it and he is spending hours reading those prayers from his heart in the monastery.
 But somebody wants to just copy this in the parish life, in the city, and then he is jamming it all into one and a half hour and goes like...
 We read all those prayers according to those rules.
 We are supposed to read them.
 We finish reading and we are happy. OK, I finished everything I was supposed to read, I go home.
 But this is really what God wants to hear from us.
 We can imagine somebody, for example, your relatives, your wife, your husband, or some kind of relationship where you have a fixed way of communicating every day.
 For example, you come back from work and you're supposed to say, hello, how are you?
 How are you? Have you eaten? How are the children? Do you feel all right?
 I miss you. I love you. OK, see you tomorrow.
 It's all right. It's all things we are supposed to say, but it all becomes like a formal ritual, like a rite. And then we just go by that protocol and we say this, this, this, and then we go.
 And sometimes also in the church we read a prayer and we do something else.
 And we're cleaning something and some people are doing things like that. So imagine all of that in the human relationship.
 Well, I mean, I would run away from such a relationship.
 If we live like that, it's really, it's surrogate. It's fake. We don't have any joy to communicate with people like that.
 We're just like robots. They just repeat things they're supposed to say and go.
 So the same thing happens with our prayers to the Lord.
 So this is why the Lord's prayer, we need to settle down our heart, to say this prayer from our heart, to express really what we want to say to the Lord and just to hear his answer.
 This also is related to despondency because what is despondency? Despondency is the deep feeling that the Lord will not hear and there is no use in telling him something.
 So what we're supposed to say, we say and we're gone. It's like a formal thing. Here you go. You want me to say this? I say this and I go.
 But if we're honest to ourselves, all of us, we have that. We don't really want to open our heart to the Lord and say something to him.
 So this is a big problem. No matter if it's a prayer at home alone or it's a prayer in the church with our brothers and sisters, there is always a risk like that.
 Our language in the relationship with the people above us becomes also very bureaucratic, very formalized.
 For example, even in the church, sometimes we read, "Let us pray for our great Lord and Father, his holiness, most holy patriarch of Moscow and all Russia, Kirill, and for our great Lord and most holy father,
 his high eminence, blessed Macarius." We have all those titles, all those things.
 And same with the saints. "Let us pray to the great prince and equal to the apostles, the prince of all Bulgaria, Boris."
 We have all those titles and all those built up.
 But the motivation behind it is to have to show our reverence to the saint or to patron.
 But it becomes too overloaded. Everything can be too much.
 It was not only in Byzantine, we had this problem. We had this problem when we had the time in Rome with all those later became this papal primacy.
 He thought that he's super prime and stuff like that. And the Byzantine also in the Middle Ages, we have too much of that.
 And also what happened with Rome went to Paris, happened with Byzantine, was overcame by Turks.
 Russia eventually also had this risk and it was also trampled.
 So we should learn from these lessons.
 We should learn from these lessons that maybe it is a problem for our relationship with God that leads to some big crisis, not only for the church, but for the whole country.
 So for the whole people.
 And if we want to have a real sound relationship with God, it is not enough just to be formally Orthodox.
 Yes, I'm Orthodox. I have baptismal certificate.
 No, we have to have this alive communication with the Lord, stand firm in the faith.
 We talk to him on a daily basis. We trust him in what we ask from him. We know how to open our heart.
 We know how to listen to the Lord.
 And another problem.
 So in one sense, we have this bureaucratic, formal, polite way of addressing people, even in our daily life.
 But when it's gone, okay, when we are more comfortable in our relationship with someone, or he depends on us, not I depend on you, he depends on me, it becomes completely different.
 I'm formal, "Hey, you, what's up?"
 We have this vulgar, barbaric, impolite, we think, "Oh, it's very honest."
 It's not honest. It's a lack of respect.
 It's rudeness.
 We're like savages inside.
 So we begin speaking like that in that manner to people.
 And we think that it's friendship, it's whatever.
 It's like we're like brothers, bro, remember?
 And this happens with the Lord.
 When we think that, okay, now, like with some Protestant friends, "Oh, he's our bro," and things like that.
 So there is lack of respect, lack of fear, and it's losing God completely because he doesn't stand anything like that.
 So in our relationship with people, we have this problem, this risk, with God is also this risk.
 So we have to have both fear and reverence towards him.
 But also it has to come from our heart and not from some formal rules that we need to do this, this, this, this, this, and say this is what we're supposed to say.
 May the Lord give us wisdom, teach us how to pray, open our hearts, get them to overcome despondency and all kinds of formalist, artificial way of building this relationship with God.
 There is nothing anti-artificial.
 In the Lord, there is yes and amen. He is the truth and he wants our hearts to be true, open, and straight in front of him.
 Orthologous. Orthos means straight.
 Have your heart straight in the Lord, the true faith, being true loyal to the Lord.
 Like all those prophets and righteous kings and people who were martyred from Old Testament times to the New Church times.
 When so many people were willing to die because their heart was straight and their faith was true.
 And there was nothing faith and no deceit, no game, no playing with God, living God.
 Amen.
 May the Lord give us such heart, help us strengthen our faith and teach us to love him from our whole heart.
 Amen. May the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you, merry the land and success spiritual growth in this land.
 Amen.
