 Dear brothers and sisters, we live in a time of turmoil and political uncertainty with this war going on, with this sickness still out there.
 And of course we ask ourselves what is happening and what is gonna happen in future.
 And today I want to share with you some of my thoughts on this topic.
 I won't talk about politics or about nationalism, who is right, who is wrong, or economic or stuff like that.
 Because, well, I just want to identify some things that are used by Devil to treat, to create traps and to lead whole nations into destruction, the way he was asked to go.
 So, this is not an answer, this is just some things for you to think about, to pray about.
 We know that there is a prince of this world, and the Lord told us that he has nothing in me.
 That means that this prince of this world, this Mama, the Devil, or spirit of Antichrist, if you wish.
 And this spirit has his own plan, his own way of controlling this world, leading this world towards his domination, his kingdom.
 And many things that are happening are basically feeding, falling into this deception.
 Because in the revelation Devil is called an ancient snake that deceives nations, not just individual people, but whole nations.
 So, how does he deceive nations?
 He deceives nations by creating traps.
 And these traps, they have the shape that you make one, you have to choose something.
 There are two choices.
 You choose what he wants and you live, or you choose what he doesn't want and you die.
 And with Christ, that was the choice. You choose to be with me, I give you all the kingdoms, I give you all the power.
 You choose not to, I will kill you. And he did, through those people.
 So, we can see this from the onset of Christ's own experience in this world.
 So, something similar happens very often.
 Even for Christ, he left no choice.
 But, of course, when Christ lost in this world, he gained, he won over sin, over death.
 That's an answer, what should we do in such cases.
 And that was auctioned for many martyrs. So, the mammon he tries, it's just the name of ancient god, and it's just used to describe it.
 And the prince of this world, he is trying to make it so that there is no choice.
 Some examples.
 I will come slowly to what's happening with Russia and Ukraine right now.
 And this isolation of Russia that is happening now.
 And I won't talk about politics, I will try not to.
 So, in the past, what we had? We had this choice.
 Either you stay with a monarchy, with monarch, in this patriarchal society.
 And you die because this monarch is a crap monarch, it's a bad one.
 Or you just get rid of this monarchy, you rule yourself, you have democracy, and you have another type of society.
 This type of society that doesn't have this monarch as your head, you have yourself as your head.
 You have your passions, your desires, your egoism as your head, and you have mammon and people who control all the money and resources and ideology.
 They become your head, and they represent this mammon and this new lord that you choose.
 So, you don't really get any democracy and freedom.
 That's just one example of what happened in the recent history of most countries, most nations.
 We have some even more recent examples.
 For example, in the Soviet times, after the First World War.
 The war is going on, so Saint Nicholas, the Tsar, he was pushed also to this choice.
 You either forfeit your power, or if you don't, Russia will be destroyed.
 All the people are going to be killed in this war, and that's it.
 They will come and destroy you, so you have to abdicate.
 So, he was forced to do that, and then he was killed soon after that.
 With the Soviet, what happened?
 You're either red or white, no matter who you are.
 If you don't like red, you're white, and you either are going to be killed, or you fight.
 If you're not white, you have to be red, and you will have to fight against white.
 There is no other option, so you have to kill in any case.
 Eventually, tens of millions of people were killed in that war.
 Similar things.
 In the war, if you don't like Stalin, you'll have Hitler come and kill.
 If you don't like Stalin, you have to fight for him in any case.
 You're also put in that position that there is no other choice.
 You just have to make one choice.
 On the individual level, Mamont also uses this strategy.
 For example, he tells you that you have to buy an expensive house, because everybody else has,
 and your wife is going to leave you if you don't have a house, or whatever.
 You're persuaded that you have to have a house to be a normal person.
 You buy this house, and then you pay big mortgage amounts, and you have no option, any job.
 You're ready to be anywhere, just to survive, just to pay those mortgage rentals.
 If it's immoral, you have also no choice.
 Mamont doesn't care.
 If you want to care about your children, to spend more time with your children, also you cannot have that.
 Your children will be alienated from normal family life, and they will also be brainwashed by the spirit of Antichrist.
 Through games, through TV, music, rock, drugs, and whatever else.
 Because they will be out of the traditional family bring up.
 It's also a Mamont strategy.
 That's also just an example on the individual level.
 Coming back to what happens in the world.
 We see with the Soviet Union, there is this squeezing that happened, that the economy was doing really bad.
 You had nothing to eat in the 80s.
 Scarcity.
 Good, bad, restricted.
 Squeezing everybody, and then releasing everything.
 So we have to embrace the market society.
 And also this totalitarian was totalitarian to such an extent that people were hating it already.
 And they were, ok, now freedom, freedom. And this freedom came at an expense of moral destruction.
 That people had this hedonism.
 That you need to only care about money.
 Everybody else is just a source of money.
 You have to embrace this new mindset.
 New social paradigm.
 So it goes from one thing to another.
 With this communism, it's the same thing.
 You don't like these exploiters and all this.
 So what you need to, the only choice is communism, socialism.
 And then making it so absurd that you don't believe in it.
 And then you go back and you're an exploiter yourself.
 You embrace just these capitalist values and all other things.
 So it is trying to do this.
 You love your country, but you're independent.
 No, they will come and say "oh, you love your country? Now join us."
 And by joining us, slowly you see that this is Nazism or something like that.
 That is really scary.
 And then you just throw this away.
 No, no, I don't like my country. Sorry, I just want to be a cosmopolitan.
 Just a citizen of the world.
 So you forfeit any belongingness to some culture, to some roots.
 And you are conquered by the devil through this.
 So, coming back to what is happening now.
 I really hope that my predictions, my concerns are not true.
 But just something to be aware of.
 The persecution of the church are done by Mamal.
 Who else? He hates Christ, basically.
 Anything related to Christ for him is an obstacle.
 But in our times he cannot just act directly as in the ancient times.
 Just because you're a Christian, just kill him.
 He can do it in some Muslim or some other places, but not in the majority.
 Most of the places in the world.
 So, on this global scale, what can he do?
 We see that in the Soviet times.
 The Bolsheviks, they used this political and economic theory that if you don't support the proletariat, you are against.
 You are aristocracy or landowner or you are capitalist.
 You need to be destroyed.
 You are a contrary revolutionary.
 So, the church, you don't like our policy, you don't like that we are government, we are atheists.
 Well, that means that you are with those guys.
 So, we just kill you. We just destroy you.
 We have all the rights to do that.
 Not because you believe in Christ. No, no, no.
 Only because of your political role.
 You have to be destroyed. This is the only choice.
 Or you'll be with us.
 So, the persecutions that are going to happen will be similar to that.
 We now already see in Ukraine, if you are a canonical priest, your patriarch is in Moscow.
 So, they would come and say, "Well, you are with the aggressor. You cannot betray your country."
 Not because you are Orthodox. No, no, no.
 Because of that.
 So, there is already this carte blanche, there is already this reason to persecute you.
 There is the excuse for doing that.
 Same thing can be done in Russia.
 If, say, war comes to Russia now, the exact same thing is going to happen.
 They are going to come to you and say, "You don't support what we do now that we fight and all our official opposition.
 Well, you betray your country. You want others to conquer us.
 So, you have to go to prison or something else."
 So, this can be used to have this persecution. And it will be not just individual people who make this scheme.
 No. Behind it is a spirit of Antichrist, who is trying to use all kinds of ways to destroy the Church of Christ.
 And the same thing can be on a global scale.
 For example, if some measure is introduced that you cannot buy and sell, they say, "Oh, you are against this system.
 You are against life. You are against humanity.
 You want some disease to spread and kill everybody.
 Not because you are Christian. No, no, no. Because you are against this system that you cannot buy anything without a code that will give you.
 So, this is something we can already expect.
 We hope that this will not come soon, but this is something that we can expect.
 And we should be ready not to be squeezed into that choice.
 And if we are like Christ himself, he was squeezed into that choice.
 He chose not to be with the table. And he was killed.
 So, if we have to sacrifice our life, our property, our school for our children, goods, supermarket, whatever we need to sacrifice for the sake of Christ.
 We have to do that.
 Let us be ready. Let us be watchful.
 Let us not get dragged into propaganda, no matter which side.
 Or into some, you know, driven by emotions.
 Oh, see these pictures. It's emotions.
 We need to be out from politics, out from nationalistic things, out away from all kinds of propaganda that there is.
 May the Lord be with us, give us strength, help us be on watch, on guard, spiritually.
 And only by being with Christ, we can stay on the right side.
 May the Lord give you blessing and give you right heart, humble and wisdom to judge about things that happen in the right way.
 I mean, may the Lord bless you.
