 Dear brothers and sisters, when we try to live a spiritual life, we often ask ourselves "Is there any use in prayer?", "Does the Lord hear me?", "Does my prayer change anything to my life and even to the life of the whole world, of the whole Church? Is there any use in that?"
 And very often we have suspicion that it's not worth it. God doesn't fear us. And when we have now some crisis, the economic crisis, the sickness, we are at a war that's going on.
 We are asking, well, many people now are talking about the end of the world. Armagedon, the apocalypse.
 This means that this situation is awakening, is awakening those who are asleep. It's, you know, like in our life.
 When everything goes well, we don't really want to go to church. We seldom pray. But when something is a shock therapy, something happens, we go to church, we pray, we're asking God's help, and then we forget again.
 So now we are going through this time. And it may seem to us that really the darkness is overcoming. We have this split in the Church. We have this big restriction on the mission.
 We have this uncertainty about the future with those wars and this whole global reset agenda. It seems that this electronic slavery is coming.
 It may seem that it's the end of the world coming. But if we think, we look back into the history, we will discover that similar things happened in the past.
 And today I want to talk about how the Church went through these things. And we can draw some very useful lessons from that situation. Because we are dealing with spiritual and material.
 What is the relationship? How does my spiritual life influence my daily life? And there is this temptation coming from everywhere.
 If you don't have a good job, if you don't have money, if you don't have connections, you're done. You're finished. So care about those things first.
 And prayer. God is always there. He is waiting for you for many thousand years already. It's not going to change anything.
 If you pray or you go to pilgrimage, it's not going to change the real, the physical.
 So in the same way, the prayers of the Church cannot influence political decisions. They cannot stop the war. They cannot prevent people from dying.
 You see, we need to influence, we need to write in the newspapers, we have information war. This can do something. But prayer, how can it bring any change?
 Let us go back to the 7th and 8th centuries. At that time, it was also a time of crisis.
 We think that anything that was in the past was peaceful. It was countryside, peasants, those few adult times, middle ages, everything was stable, nice.
 Families were strong and the currency was stable, gold, silver, everything was stable, everything was fine.
 It's the modern time that we have this technology, everything changes all the time, we have crisis, we have financial markets going up and down, we have all that fuss going on.
 But in reality, those times were also times of big struggle that was going on, both spiritual and physical.
 And when we go back to Saint John Chrysostom, even earlier in the 4th century, he's talking about the spiritual warfare that's going on.
 St. John Chrysostom Paul is also talking about it. And even in the Old Testament times, we see the people of Israel being conquered all the time and going to paganism.
 And there is always this on the verge of being overtaken by the evil. The church was only the Old Testament church.
 Some prophets, very single prophets, stood up and they were with the Lord, and everybody else was worshiping Baal, idolatry and stuff like that.
 So, they still were facing very big things. And it was always a feeling for spiritual people, there's always a feeling that the end of the world is very close, it's coming.
 And the darkness is almost overcoming, we're fighting with it.
 When we don't have prayer, we're not vigilant. The Lord said, "Be on guard, be vigilant."
 When we're not, we think that, well, everything is about the same, it's just politics changing.
 But pretty much, I have my little world, I live in this little world, I have my sausage, I eat my sausage every day, my coffee.
 And I'm going, I'm fine. We don't feel all this. So, now we have this war and the fires and other things, they are there to wake us up.
 Okay, so going back to the 6th and 7th century, what happened there?
 The Church of Christ was facing two big dangers. The one danger was coming from the Muslims, the Persians and the Muslims, the Islam.
 It was called by St. John the Christmas Stone, the revision of Antichrist, and they conquered half of Byzantine. And it was a very big, not only political, but also ideological threat to the Christian world of that time.
 Half of that world was conquered, another half, or almost another half, the Roman Empire, the Byzantine at that time, went into heresy.
 The official, the support of the Church, there was the emperor, three emperors in a row, more than 100 years, they had the policy of destroying the icons.
 It's a heretic doctrine that is called the iconoclasm, and the Church was suppressed by that, the real Church.
 And what's the real Church? At that time, in those days, we see where the real Church is, and it was just a few people at that time.
 Just a few people, monks, only some monks were holding on to the Orthodox Christian faith, and the whole world was slipping away somewhere else.
 And it was almost overcoming. And many of them were martyred, they were put into dungeons, into prisons, even killed by the official Christian emperors and the system.
 So, at that time, it seemed that it's the end of the world. The darkness is overcoming everything for those people who are spiritual.
 But the Church survived. The Church survived, and the testimony of Christ continued until now, until today.
 So, how did that happen? When the darkness was overcoming from everywhere, that's also Pharisees at that time in the Latin world, they were slipping away into the Pharisees of Papism.
 And the salvation came through the monks. Not all of them, of course, just some of them. Just some of the monks who were spiritually united with the Lord, who were the pillars of truth at that time.
 The Lord worked through them. The Lord, who is in the heavens, has worked through those fully faithful to Him here on earth, and they've kept the truth.
 And then the truth won. So, the iconoclasm was overthrown, the empire got stronger and pushed away the Muslims for some time, and there was a mission going on within those Muslim countries.
 Also saints came. And in many senses, this was due to the strengthening of the prayer of monastic spirit.
 And there were monks, they were called studit, studit monastery, those monks of that monastery. They came from the tradition which is called sleepless.
 In Greek it's akimite. It means that they had the prayer that was ongoing all the time, 24 hours. They had the divine liturgy, divine service in the 8 hour intervals.
 Now we have a group of priests and monks serving for 8 hours, praying. Then they switch to another group for another 8 hours and keep going like that.
 So, the divine liturgy, the prayer and dialogue of the church, between the church and the Lord was ongoing, was going all the time.
 And also they had this Psalter reading for 24 hours. It was a one hour shift.
 A new read for one hour, then the next guy over the next month would read for another hour. So, it would be going like that for ongoing.
 And of course, the importance is not some formal way, how it's done formally. We just copied that. They were praying. That was the real prayer, strong, going with the Lord.
 The Lord gave them the answer and guidance. Where is the truth? How not to be misled? What risks can be taken? When you can risk your life? When you should not risk your life?
 It has to be like guidance. You cannot just go by the book. If you're facing persecution, you're facing these hits of the devil, you need to be in constant communication with the Lord to help you.
 So, we see that through these monks, through these people, the whole church has survived. The Church of Christ survived at that time. So, now we're coming back to our time.
 You would say, well, okay, let's give it over to the monks. So, I don't have responsibility. I'm just a lay person. Why bother? Why struggle? No. First of all, now all of us are very weak.
 The monasteries, the monks of today, it's weaker, it's more worldly than it used to be in the seventh century. The bishops, the priests are also weaker than those in that time.
 Us lay people, we are also, well, I'm a priest, but I'm not a monk. We are also weaker than in that time. But every one of us, every single one of us can become a combatant.
 We're cold and the Lord will ask every one of us, what have you done? Why were you sleeping? And we cannot say, oh, I'm not a monk, I'm not a monastic, it's someone else, they didn't do good job, so why blame me?
 No, the Lord will say, it's because of you. You could do that, but you did not. You have not. And we will have nothing to answer.
 So the Lord is expecting from every one of us, very intensive spiritual life, be vigilant all the time.
 We cannot pray 24 hours, but we need to know that if we pray today, two times, five times, that counts, that works, that will contribute to the overall prayer that is going on constantly.
 So the Lord, He can see everybody at the same time. Are people praying? Are people, do they care about Him? Do they care about salvation and the kingdom of heaven?
 If they're not, well, I'm going somewhere else. So why should I support them? Why should I give them, why should I rescue them?
 They're going to be just destroyed, kill, finish. So we need to, during this great land time especially, we need to set our face before the Lord, like King Joseph.
 When the army was attacking, he said, and he called the whole Judea to fast, because fasting adds the strength to the prayer.
 Our prayer is stronger. We are no kin to the Lord. The Lord help us, give us strength, give us guidance, give us revolution, give deliverance to your church, to your people.
 Help us overcome every evil that there is out there. And the Lord will fear and move to be generous.
 That saved the church at that time. And this has to save the church in this time.
 So we should not think always what Putin is going to do this or that or it's an information war.
 We need to write and persuade people about something. No, we need to pray strongly.
 It doesn't mean that we don't care about what's going on, that we sort of escape from reality into prayer.
 No, we have to contribute to this reality. Our heart should have pain for what is happening, but we should not be panicking.
 We should not get into despondency, that it's over, nothing can be done.
 And it's a big mistake to think that it's all in God's hands. Just be fine. Don't worry about anything.
 He's going to fix whatever he wants. And that's it.
 Now, this is sometimes the modern Protestants or even orthodontists have this feeling, this thinking.
 No, this is just a way of escaping.
 It's like giving yourself a drug. Just take it easy.
 No, we have to be spiritually sound. Don't panic, don't fear, don't have any fear.
 But we need to be always doing something, especially spiritual work.
 And if we can do something else. So we can see that those monks, they didn't just go to a monastery in the desert.
 No, they were very actively involved in Constantinople, in many other places in Jerusalem.
 So we can see this link, spiritual and physical.
 So sometimes it's actually what they've done helped to change the situation.
 But it was not that they were caring just about that.
 Where do I go and whom do I talk to and things like that.
 They were driven by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit led them to fight with heresy, to fight with schism, with all kinds of temptations out there.
 All kinds of real, even political agenda. So if the God will give us this kind of guidance, go and die for something.
 Well, we go and we die for truth or testimony of the Lord.
 Let us be wise, let us be afraid, let us have full trust in the Lord and be willing to do this testimony.
 One way to see if you're still sleeping, despite all that problems happening, you're still sleeping.
 If you completely fully believe into one position, there are two sides to every issue individually.
 And you fully grasp one side because the media tells you against this.
 That means that your soul is still sleeping, even though you're screaming out there, rallying or something.
 Your soul is still asleep because you don't want to think, you don't want to get out.
 You're also sort of closed in a shell and this shell is comfortable for you.
 I'm talking maybe not about you, maybe about your relatives, your friends.
 When you see this happening, that means that people are still sleeping.
 We're knocking. We need to pray for them, we need to help them.
 And very, very often we ourselves accept some kind of propaganda that's coming from somewhere.
 So let us be wise, independent from the worldly propaganda and stuff coming here.
 And ask for the answers in the Bible, in the faith, in our prayers to the Lord, in the Holy Gospel.
 And we will get the guidance and we will get the strength to go through all of this.
 I mean, may the Lord give you such heart and strengthen you in the prayer and in the land and in the fasting.
 I mean, God bless.
