 Dear brothers and sisters, we have entered into the week of the veneration of the cross.
 And this is the middle of the great land where we get the power from the life-giving cross that will enable us to continue this path to Golgotha with our Lord,
 to receive the passion and to reach the victory over death, through death.
 We think during this time of the meaning of the cross and I will dedicate to you my next video, I think.
 In this video, I want to give an introduction into this topic, through uniting it to what is happening now in the world.
 And how should we face, how should we understand what's happening?
 As Christians, how are we going to deal with it?
 Now many people are asking, is the Lord has control over what's happening? Should we just relax because everything is according to God's plan?
 Or should we count on something else, not wait for God because everything is just falling apart?
 We have war, pandemic, we have this, we have economic crisis, ecological, everything is just getting destroyed and where is God?
 So the answer will be in the cross.
 And we first go back to Job, to a righteous Job who experienced suffering even though he was righteous.
 In that he is similar to Christ, his life is prophesy about Christ because also Christ is righteous and he is suffering.
 And this was a strange, difficult to understand to an old Israelite religion where we understood, where people had the understanding that you are righteous, you have the blessing of the Lord, everything is growing, blooming, everything is fine.
 And if you are cursed, if you are a sinner, then you have all kinds of tribulation coming from the Lord and your life will be miserable and you will perish, you will die.
 So this was the question, where is the Lord's righteousness? Where is it?
 Because that was the question which Job himself was asking. And for him there was also this question, if everything works not as the Lord's justice is promising, then maybe there is a virus, there is some kind of bug which came into the plan of the Lord and just corrupted the whole plan.
 And that's why I'm suffering. So that was the dilemma.
 But at the end, the Lord gave him answer, but it was not the direct answer.
 If we see how the Lord answered, he took him to see the creation, how the animals are giving birth and how the whole world is full of the Lord's wisdom and care and mind.
 So it's not a flaw, it's not some kind of failure of the Lord's plan.
 So he understands, his reaction to what he has shown is that you are Almighty, God, you are Almighty. And because wisdom is so great that I don't need to ask everything, I don't need to be like that, asking everything, oh, why is this, why is this righteous, this unrighteousness?
 No need. The Lord's wisdom is above all of that. It's exceeding your comprehension. Don't be asking questions about every little thing.
 And this is also what is a good lesson to us. Sometimes no need to ask too much and always look for answers, whether this is according to God's plan, not according to God's plan and things like that.
 The Lord's plan is exceeding many things. He is much wiser. Having said this, we need to distinguish two things.
 One thing is when a righteous person, righteous man is suffering. And in this case, it's all according to the Lord's providence, Lord's wisdom, Lord's plan, even though he doesn't want him to suffer, but that all fits into the plan.
 And that brings greater, better fruits at the end so that the death of Christ himself brings great fruit, salvation for us.
 And also the suffering of Job brings great fruit. We can learn many things. It is a very important prophecy to many people.
 So this is one thing. But suffering of the sinners who don't repent, those evildoers, this suffering and death is not something good.
 It's not something that the Lord is in his, well, it's not that the Lord wants them to sin and to suffer. They die. It's not Lord's plan.
 He doesn't create these people of Sabdom, Hamorrah so that they will be destroyed one day. It's all the purpose why he created them. And the Lord hates lawlessness. Everything that is against his commandment, against his love, all of that is a domination in front of the Lord.
 So it's not something good and the Lord has control over it and he's guiding it in the right direction. No, it's just against the Lord. It's just bad.
 Okay, so there are two things we need to distinguish to be able to answer these questions. Okay, so let us come back to our time. In our time we see the whole world is suffering.
 Well, some people and especially some sinners, they are not suffering. They are fine. They're making money on what's going on. So it's not that everybody is suffering. Everybody who is sinning is suffering at this moment.
 Okay, but that's another question. We can see that about our time there are saints, modern, recent saints who have told us, explained to us what does it mean to follow Christ.
 If we just read the Bible, most of us, we don't understand, we don't get it. We have all those different sects and factions that they all have their own understanding of the Bible, the gospel.
 So it's easy to go astray. But we have these holy men who really gained this union with the Lord and who has explained many important things to us.
 And we also have some prophets, in quotes, of the spirit of antichrist. And this spirit is with humanity from ancient times.
 And the spirit is inspiring many people, many people who are sinners or are thirsty for glory, who have this satanistic feeling that I am the best, I need power over others.
 Or in other sins, some passions, they enslave their hearts. And they become also ministers or even prophets of this spirit of antichrist. And one of them is Nietzsche.
 This philosopher who was the most, he was the philosopher whom Hitler loved the most. And he inspired many people during the 20th century and even until now, many people love him.
 And even though Hitler was killed, the spirit of antichrist was not destroyed. And of course, it's not just Nietzsche who is expressing it, it's just showing one side of it.
 It has many faces, many shapes, it's taking many forms. But Nietzsche was quite honest in describing these principles. The principle that what lies beneath the surface of different cultures is the spirit of Dionysus.
 And that's what we call old man. This spirit that is the beast coming out of men that needs satisfaction and sin and all kinds of... it's chaotic and wild and cannot be satisfied.
 So that's what we call the old man in us, which sometimes gets out and overcomes us.
 And he's also talking about that God died and we killed him. And this is true for the Western society of the 19th century and even more so today for this postmodern world.
 That people don't believe in God, they believe in progress, they believe in social contract, they believe in these powers of corporations and things.
 In the bright future or whatever. They can believe in many different things. Evil, bad, good. But they don't believe that the Lord can change anything about this world.
 So this unbelief in the Lord is the spirit of Antichrist, of our time. And with this disbelief in the Lord, practical disbelief, people can call themselves Christian.
 Oh yes, I'm Christian, I like tradition, I like Bible. But he said it's just a shadow of God. It's not already... God is absent. He's not here anymore because people don't want him.
 And this is to a large extent true. If you don't want him, if you don't trust him, if you don't allow him to be in your heart, he will not insist.
 So basically, we have this liberation of masses, of great numbers of people, to this Broadway. Broadway that goes to destruction, that serves Mammon and Antichrist.
 And that has happened. This liberation has happened. And we have fruits of this liberation. And now we are children of this spirit.
 For our generation, we are children, maybe grandchildren, of this spirit of Antichrist that believes in anything but God.
 In money, in progress, in power, in whatever. But not in God. And we sometimes persuade ourselves, I'm Christian, I believe in Christ, I read Bible.
 And that's not going deep enough. Because in what you do, in how you face this life, you are Antichristian. I am Antichristian.
 Most of us are like that. And we don't perceive it because we don't see how to be different. We don't know how to be different.
 And it's easy to be just like everybody else. So when we make choices, we base them not on commandments of the Lord,
 but based on our desires, passions, values and everything else that is serving Mammon and Antichrist.
 And I've talked about it before. So now, if the world is like that, it's lawless, it's getting into this sinful and unrepentant life,
 then the suffering that is gay, it's not the suffering of the righteous, it's the suffering of the unrepentant sinner.
 And this is different from what happened with Job. And as a result of all this sin, of course, the righteous,
 the few who are faithful to the Lord and who live by the commandments, they will also suffer.
 And their suffering will be allowed by the Lord in the sense it was allowed to Job to suffer for a good outcome.
 But that doesn't mean that the whole world is suffering for a good outcome overall.
 It's more like the suffering of the Hamor and Sodom, which will be destroyed.
 So we need to make this distinction not to bring everything to either this side or that side.
 We need to draw that line. And we need to destroy that and well, kill, mortify that Dionysus is in us.
 And the final and very important thing that I want to say today is that it seems that this way of thinking,
 way of life is very powerful, very convincing. We're building these houses. It's a big, huge thing.
 Everybody believes in that. Everybody lives according to those rules of capitalism or whatever else.
 OK, communism. So this is very powerful, very strong. And even when the people are sinning, they have this real power.
 This is not power. This is not strength. All these persecutions of the church, it's not coming out of strength.
 It's coming out of weakness. When somebody is quarreling, losing his temper and breaking things apart, screaming,
 it is not because he's strong. It's because he's weak or she's weak. OK, that's what's happening.
 Maybe destroying a lot of things, but this destruction is not coming from power. It's coming from a lack of power.
 So what the Nietzsche is saying is a big mistake. It's a lie. Well, he himself believes in that.
 But this is perverted understanding of God and Christ. And he is coming from hatred because he had this internal hatred towards everything Christian.
 But in many ways, what he thought is Christian was actually Catholic. But that doesn't matter. In any case, he was against Christ.
 And the Lord gives us true power. And this true power comes from the cross.
 And this true power makes us able to overcome passions, temptations, even strong ones, and to face any kind of persecution, any kind of evil.
 And this is true, real power and not this destructive, this Dionysius way of just breaking things apart or building big things, casinos and stuff like that.
 It's not power. This is a lack of power. This comes from impotence. When you are weak, you cannot do anything.
 You just become the slave of the beast that's inside you. And you are completely blinded and arrogant and closed upon yourself.
 And that makes you really miserable and destroys your life and your soul.
 So this so-called superman that Nietzsche was preaching is not a superman. He's a miserable man.
 He's not even a man. He's destroying human nature. This is what some transhumanism is provoking now. Burning man.
 It's a burning of human, of real man created by God and the creation of some garbage.
 So let us be wise. Let us penetrate into understanding of the Spirit of Christ following this narrow path to salvation.
 Having this Spirit of Christ indeed with us, in us, despite everything else going astray, everything, all the world going nuts.
 So in this case, no matter what happens, war, persecution, any kind of suffering that we need to go through,
 this will be built into the Lord's plan of salvation for us and for the whole world in us.
 Because the path of the Church is the key crucial axis or vector of the whole Church, of the whole world history.
 So let us be loyal, faithful to the Lord despite the overall gay apostasy that's going on.
 Let us be faithful, be calm, have peace in our hearts and get closer and stronger in the Lord on this path to Golgotha and to salvation.
 The Lord give you joy and blessing.
