 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to continue about the Cross, and we are still in the week of the veneration of the Cross.
 And after this week, the remaining three weeks until Pascha will be our ascent to Golgotha, together with Christ. This is the most holy time of the Lent, and this is the time that has to become a model, the model for our life, because a true Christian is someone who is following Christ to Golgotha.
 This is what he said, "If you want to be my disciple, take up your cross and follow me."
 So, today we need to think deeper about the meaning of the Cross and following Christ, because now there are so many misconceptions about the Cross.
 Some people think just to have a Cross, that solves the problem. So, we put Cross everywhere, we hang Cross here, but that goes together with Hell, no problem, with the sin.
 Because in many places I saw churches, Lutheran, Protestant, many, they have Crosses everywhere on the Church, by the Church, but also the Sodomite flag, you know what I'm talking about.
 So, something for what the Lord destroyed, Sodom and Hamorah, all those sins.
 And for them it goes together, no problem, and I don't know what God they worship if they come. But they have Cross, no problem.
 So, the Cross by itself is not some magical tennis man or some amulet. There is another misconception when people are super afraid, they have a phobia of trampling on Cross.
 If there is somewhere, anything that resembles Cross, you have on the floor, you have these square tiles, and they make Crosses because they are square.
 People don't step on those Crosses because they step on it. Unless it's you, yourself, you made a Cross on the floor, then you cannot trample on it, cannot step on it.
 That would be sacrilege. But we don't need to worry about everywhere we see Cross, any cage, anything that has an intersection, all that is Cross.
 And that's another misconception. And maybe it's smaller, it's few people. Most people, they don't really get what the Cross is all about, and they consider themselves Christians, but they don't want to follow Christ.
 And today I want to talk about really following Christ and the meaning of the Cross, how we can draw this source of life from the Cross, because it's a life-giving Cross.
 The Cross means passions in the suffering, the meaning of suffering, and death of Christ, of the righteous who died for our sins.
 We need to crucify who? We need to crucify our old man. And that's why Paul said that for me, the world is crucified, and I'm for the world.
 Everything that all these sins, passions, attractions, everything that exists in this world, that for me becomes nothing. I'm not attracted by that anymore.
 It's all fixed to the Cross. It's all killed, mortified, crucified. So that's killing the old self. That's why we fast.
 And not only fast, we are facing all kinds of hardships and sufferings for the sake of cleaning ourselves from this old self, from everything related to old self.
 And we are facing it. To take up the Cross means to face it and not to run away.
 When somebody is scolding you or me, it's painful. The Cross brings pain. It's painful, but usually it's painful because of our vainglory, because I think I'm super, but somebody is saying I'm garbage.
 And we reject it. We say no, it's not me. You misunderstand. You yourself like that. This is not accepting your Cross. This reaction is not accepting.
 Somebody is suffering and asking for our help, but it's not my problem. You don't want someone's pain to become your pain. That's not willing to take up your Cross.
 Or some other things. There are many, many things. When you're betrayed, when things are stolen from you, when you lose something, when you're fired from a job, it's painful.
 The way you receive this pain, if you receive it as a cure for your sin, to make you humble, to make you repentant, to make you a better Christian, that means that you receive it as a Cross.
 You don't run away. But it's not all kinds of pain. This pain makes you just stressed or angry and complain about life.
 That is also pain, but it's sorrow that brings you to hell. It's not the sorrow that brings you to paradise. There are different types of sorrow.
 Having said that, we need to also think about suffering not for sins, not because of sins by Christ. He has suffered, but he didn't commit any sin.
 So, this is also possible. When you're wronged, not because of your fault, but not because of your sins, but because of testimony for Christ.
 Because somebody can see Christ in you and he is unhappy about it. For truth. When you suffer for truth, you just say the truth. It's not that you've sinned.
 And because of that, you suffer. That's also a Cross. And we need to be willing to take up that kind of Cross for righteousness sake, for Christ, for our faith.
 And the good example is also during this time, March, April, beginning of April, the royal family in Russia, after the Emperor Nicholas, saint, because they're all saints.
 When he was forced to forfeit the throne, they were arrested right away, all of them, and also those who helped them, their servants.
 And most of those servants were also canonized and became saints. And they all faced torture, humiliation, uncertainty, arrest, lack of freedom, and death, death penalty.
 That was something they would expect to happen. And it did happen. About a year and a half of all those arrests and exiles and tortures, they were killed brutally.
 And there is the record of the priest who was serving during this time, March, April, 1917. He was serving the liturgy for them almost every day, maybe four times a week, very often.
 And he makes records every time. He said that I am the servant of the altar. I don't pray as good as they do. They pray from their heart. They are kneeling. They talk to God.
 I feel how the words of the liturgy are touching their hearts, going through their hearts, every word. For them, they were facing Golgotha.
 And we now are walking to Golgotha with Christ. So we have to have this heart going to Golgotha of our life.
 We should not hide in a closed box where it's comfortable, where I have my comfortable meals and life and paychecks and everything and vacations and purchases and everything.
 It's my little world and I enjoy it and it's so nice and so good. Maybe it's not so good, but it's just my world. I don't care about anything else.
 This is saving my life, but losing eternal life. And the Lord said that you need to lose your life to save your life, to be saved.
 And we need to, through the cross, through following Christ, we are willing to have our souls saved.
 And then, like for them, all these worldly things, earthly matters, they were not important anymore because they were facing Golgotha.
 So for us, this must be true also, that these earthly things, less and less. We care about them less and less. One of the saints was a description.
 She did not even have enough clothes. I mean, she had only two pieces of clothes and she washed today one, put on, tomorrow wash this one, put on.
 And she didn't need anything else. We have all punches, so many clothes and everything else, and we want more, more, more.
 We need to stop. We need to make this decision. I'm with Christ. I'm walking towards Golgotha.
 It's not that I have another 50 years ahead and maybe some time I die and that will be some time later. No, it's like today we are facing it, today we are going with Christ.
 And things have to become a model for our whole life. This is ideal. Of course, it's hard for us to do it so fast, but we need to be open.
 We need to have our hearts open to Lord's agitation, to Lord changing us. And we need to be willing to take up our cross.
 During this time, we are becoming firm in this choice.
 And having said this, I want to say a few words about what's happening now in the world, because there are many accusations.
 People say, "You are Orthodox. Why do you have war? Why do you kill each other? Where is the church? Why do pastors not do anything? Why didn't they do anything?"
 And things like this happen.
 I need to tell you that we can see from the time of those martyrs whom I've just mentioned, that revolution, the Bolshevik revolution,
 all those terrible things that happened, they also of course happened partly because of us not doing enough pastors.
 But not only. This is another big issue, why it happened.
 But after it happened, the people who took up the cross, who were willing to take up the cross, they were killed, almost all of them.
 Because the majority of the population, they chose this deception of Mammon.
 They built a bright future, have progress, have science, have industry, have everything, have a good life in this world.
 This deception from the devil is Mammon. And because of that, they killed the other people who were willing to serve Christ.
 So after this happened, the whole population, the whole society, Russia, Ukraine, they were placed on this wide road to hell.
 They were deceived. And now when the church eventually gained freedom, it was so small, and now trying to pull all those people back, it's not that easy.
 It's not that easy at all. So we should not think that all those people, all of a sudden, by just saying "Oh, now I'm Orthodox", they really take up their cross and follow Christ.
 This is hard enough, and many people, they don't want it. No matter if you're a saint, if you're a genius, whatever you are, it's not that everybody was going to follow you.
 Okay? Willing to take up your cross and forsake all that Mammona stuff.
 So, majority of people, and I don't know how many, but it's a vast majority, maybe more than 90% of people are not willing to follow Christ.
 And it's like that everywhere. Not just in Russia, in Ukraine, it's everywhere, maybe even worse.
 So now, of course, apparently, we as pastors did not do enough. In terms of pastoral work, in terms of mission work, yes, we did not do enough.
 We need to recognize, acknowledge that. But it's not just because of that, that we have what we have.
 And it's not Orthodox killing Orthodox, we need to understand. It is people who call themselves Orthodox, but they don't really care, most of them.
 Or they're fooled, they're tricked by a devil. Because the agenda that is announced, it also has not too much in common with the Christian teaching, with the cross and Golgotha.
 Be it nationalism, be it some bright future, strong empire, or other things.
 You see, when we as pastors, we talk about Christ, even pastors, they are misled and they are tricked by this situation.
 Not everybody understands what's happening and why it's happening. But you see, when the Christian tells something, like a pastor, a patriarch, whoever,
 talks with people who are secular, or who say that they're Orthodox, but they don't really care, they value this.
 They don't consider him as an authority for them. So they can listen, yes, but they have their own values and position.
 And they value this in light of their own position, or in light of what they hear in TV.
 So be it patriotic, be it whatever, liberal, nationalistic, whatever, but they would evaluate everything from this.
 It's not that they receive this and "Oh, Christ is teaching that, okay, let's do that."
 So we are not responsible for the whole society. We cannot be responsible for the whole society if it doesn't want to carry the cross.
 We're responsible for not doing enough mission, yes, for not doing the pastoral care good enough, yes, but not for the whole societies,
 or even the authorities. People say "Why? Patrick didn't tell Putin something."
 It's not working like that. Sometimes, yes, he can say some things, but decisions like this,
 Patrick doesn't have much influence on them. So we need to understand that.
 So in the future, the whole world will accept Mamona, the agenda of Mamona, be it great reset, be it whatever,
 and will go in that direction. And Mamona always hates Christ. We need to remember, it will hate Christ no matter what.
 It can show that it's friendly or it can directly abuse and hurt the church.
 We can take different shapes, but Mamona will be against Christ, a true cross.
 So for us, we need to begin from ourselves, each and every one of us, if we learn how to follow Christ, how to walk this path to go forth,
 how to take up our cross and to find joy in a cross which is mortifying everything.
 It's not mortifying me. It's mortifying all my old self, all my passions, all the garbage, all the filth that is in me,
 and makes me healthy, strong, free, wise, and able to withstand evil and everything else.
 Because it's from God, and God just wants me, wants good things for me, really good, not what I want, but what is objectively good.
 And that way we will be firm, we will be anchored in salvation, in faith, on the rock of faith.
 And no matter what happens, the Lord will bring us to His kingdom.
 Let us be true witnesses of Christ. Let us all be willing and eager to carry, take up and carry our cross,
 and be even willing to take up a bigger cross if the Lord allows, like those martyrs in Bolshevik times.
 Let us be willing, let us be fond of this, we are one family, we want to be friends, we want to be on their side,
 we want to be motivated by them and not by those who are killing them.
 There is always the motivation of someone who is crucified, and the motivation of someone who is crucifying someone else.
 And we need to choose the side, we need to get firmly on this side of those ready to be crucified,
 and pray for the whole world and for the people hurting, killing us, persecuting us.
 Let us get closer to Christ during this time and to step firmly on the path to salvation with our Lord to Golgotha and me.
