 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about standing or station.
 This is central to Christian life.
 Also, today, tonight, we will have a standing of Saint Mary of Egypt.
 This is a divine service which the Church holds on the fifth week of the Great Land.
 And it is the whole canon of Saint Andrew of Crete, together with the life of Saint Mary of Egypt.
 We will read it, and we might wonder why it's called standing Saint Mary.
 And why Saint Mary? Why not some other saint?
 Is standing because it's a long prayer? Well, not because of that.
 To understand this concept of standing, we go back to the earliest church history.
 And there were station days, so-called station days, which were the fasting days.
 Where the faithful would not eat, maybe they drink a little bit, but they don't eat until at least 3 p.m.
 Well, better still till 6 p.m.
 So, when it's end of the day, it was considered end of the day.
 So, these station days were very important.
 From the earliest document from Did I Head, which was written at the same time when the Gospels were written,
 we see that the Church kept fast during Wednesdays and Fridays.
 Those were the station days.
 And during these days, there was the tremendous focus on prayer, Holy Scripture, spiritual life,
 and standing as a military term, on guard, to watch for any temptation, evil, delusion, or anything like that.
 So, this concept came from there.
 So, standing is actually fasting.
 And to stand in the truth, to stand on guard against the enemy, not to be overthrown by him or injured by him.
 To stand on guard of your own soul, not to have evil, false temptations, enter and defile you, harm you.
 You need that standing.
 You need to learn what it is all about.
 And we do this now during the Lent because this is a model for us, how to keep the Lent.
 I will say about that in a moment.
 Let us take a look at the Apostle Paul, what he says.
 He says that our fight is with these spiritual evil powers, and that is Ephesians chapter 6.
 Let us say what he says about how to fight those evil powers.
 6 verse 13, "Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand.
 Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness.
 Stand, that you may overcome all the evil in that evil day, and stand."
 Stand through, remain standing all through.
 That is what it means.
 What is this evil day?
 The Holy Fathers tell us that this is this earthly world. This world is full of deception, evil, temptations, all kinds of evil stuff.
 So this is evil day.
 Why day?
 Why the day?
 It is a day because it is short.
 It has its span.
 It won't be too long.
 Do you think that it is forever? No, it won't be forever.
 The temptation you have to go through, all this war, the spiritual warfare you have to face, it is temporary.
 It will be over quite soon.
 So this gives us great hope and great motivation to keep this.
 Of course, maybe you might face some truly evil day, revolution, war, something like a big hit by the devil.
 That he is getting ready, getting ready, getting ready, and then he hits you.
 In that very day you have to stand, you have to stand through that hit, that invasion, that he is going to coup d'etat, that he is going to try to do, to overtake you.
 So we see this standing, the concept of standing from hostile Peter, how central, how important it is.
 And if we relax and take it easy, the old man inside us will wake up.
 In the Holy Baptist we participate in this victory of Christ over devil and he makes our old man die out.
 But if we are relaxed, now I am Christian, the old man in you is going to wake up and he is going to harm you and hit you bad.
 So to get rid of him, to mortify him, crucify him, you need to stand on guard, you need to be standing. This is a military term.
 And the Orthodox faith means standing in truth, that we are standing in truth, it's not just to accept some right doctrine. I accept, I accept, and I am fine, I am Orthodox.
 No, Orthodoxia, the right believing and right worshipping of God also means orthopraxia. Orthopraxia is right life, deeds.
 Because faith without deeds is dead according to the Apostle Paul. If you believe the right thing but you don't do anything, it's nothing, you are far away.
 So orthopraxia, and orthopraxia also means orthostasia, standing. You need to stand in the truth, in the right way.
 So standing is directly connected to remain Orthodox. It's not enough just to call yourself Orthodox, be baptized Orthodox, belong to the Orthodox Church formally.
 It would be not Orthodoxia, it would be maybe ortho-calling yourself, you call yourself the right way, but it's just calling, just names, which doesn't mean much.
 Or the right party, you belong to the right party. No, that's nothing. Well, it's better than nothing, but it's not enough.
 So we need, of course, we should not accuse others. We begin from ourselves. We have to be truly Orthodox Christians, stand in the truth.
 And now we might also see that the whole Church in some ways is being pushed away on some frontiers.
 In some frontiers we are advancing, some frontiers we are losing. And the most spiritually talking, the greatest danger comes from loosening, relaxing of the fast, of asceticism, of spiritual warfare.
 Because we now have much less monastics, not so many. And many things that are done in the Church, spiritual books, mission, is traditionally done by monastics who focus on this completely.
 All their life they focus on all these things, but now much less and it's getting weaker than it used to be.
 Lay people, not too many active lay people. Everybody is busy with making his own life, earning money, too many temptations, too many obligations in this world.
 And also less not so serious about faith, not so eager to change, to stand in that fast, to fight with the evil.
 We see that many media in the Church is influenced too much by this earthly agenda, ideas, ideologies. Why common? We see that the political agenda is influencing the Church in many ways.
 Even the hierarchs, these shackles, if you don't support something without funding, money, it becomes more and more like shackles.
 When we see this worldliness coming in some way in the Church, we should not say "Oh, I know these guys, they are traitors, they are corrupted."
 So I don't believe in this Church, I just go with myself. This is the greatest mistake you can make.
 Because we believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church, the Orthodox Church, we believe it is Catholic also.
 Not the Catholic Church, but the name was stolen from us. The true Catholic Church is the Orthodox Church.
 So this Church, we believe in it, and it will exist forever, until the end of the ages. So if you don't believe in it, you are not Orthodox, sorry.
 So we believe that this Church is, and it will live longer than we do. Our lives will be much stronger.
 So we have to have faith that the Church is out there and is going to be there forever. And even though in some frontiers it's losing positions, we can even go to the territory of the enemy and hit him from within.
 By being stronger soldiers, by relying on the Holy Fathers and having stricter ascetic requirements in our life.
 Standing better against evil than even some of the brothers and sisters.
 So with humbleness, only with the grace of the Lord. It cannot be done just by me, by my own will.
 But Saint Mary of Egypt is a great example of how our will can change us.
 With God's grace, how we can be so decisive about fighting with the evil that's within us, that we become very holy and accomplish a lot in terms of fighting with the evil.
 So we can do that, we can hit the enemy in his own place. Because this is like someone who doesn't want to defend his country because he says that "Oh, this government, they are corrupt, so I will help the enemy".
 This is a traitor. This is not a hero, this is not a smart guy.
 So we need to not be like that. Our homeland is the Holy Church, is the kingdom of heaven that is present now in this world.
 And we are soldiers of this kingdom and citizens of this kingdom.
 So we do the testimony of Christ's love, we need to get stronger spiritually with ourselves and learn from the example of the saints.
 So let us put greater requests ourselves to do better, to do more, to reach new levels.
 And now it's the last part of the Great Land that we need to be especially vigilant and pray longer, read the Holy Scripture, be with Christ following him to Golgotha and remain in the higher spiritual vigilance after the land is over.
 Not to just go back, relax and have all the old patrons wake up and overtake you.
 Also one last thing I want to say is that for some people their life may be really seem to be long.
 They don't know why they live in the church. But the problem is that the Lord is giving us time especially when we don't stand.
 We have not yet found how to stand. What does it mean to stand, to fight? What is spiritual work?
 Yes, I'm Orthodox, I go to church, I do this, I do that, I don't really like fasting, I don't really read the Bible, but I'm Orthodox.
 No, this will not be enough. So the Lord gives you more time to wake up.
 Now begin fighting with the evil, begin standing in the truth, begin your path to Golgotha, to sanctity.
 This is the good time, this is the good opportunity. We have to begin.
 Enter into this fight, otherwise you will remain in that evil day, sleeping, blinded, relaxed, overtaking back all kinds of passions and self-delusion.
 May the Lord give us wisdom, strength, put on this stand, place us in this standing, give us strength to stand through, all the way through, and win over the enemy with his help.
 And Saint Mary of Egypt, pray to God for us, I mean. God bless.
