 Dear brothers and sisters, during this time of separation, war, conflicts in the world,
 in the church, it is in society, all kinds of problems that we've been told about, social,
 ethnic, all kinds of issues we're facing now, peaceful life, it is over.
 It is good to talk about division and unity that we gain in Christ.
 And we have some experience with that, because we in this parish have people from all over
 the world.
 We have Taiwanese, have Americans, Russians, Ukrainians, Filipinos, Georgians, Greek, we
 have all kinds of people from different places, different social positions, and what I will
 be talking about will also be from the experience that we have here, the experience of gradually
 becoming one family in Christ, and not just one family, becoming one, one in Christ.
 First, let us take a look at what Apostle Paul is telling us about.
 These are basic, so important things, but we depart from this, and that's why we have
 all that separation of this world.
 Apostle Paul, pistol to the Galatians, chapter 3, verse 27 to 29, "For as many of you as
 have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek.
 There is neither slave nor free man.
 There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
 And if you be Christ's, then are you Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise."
 Apostle Paul is telling us that once we are baptized into Christ, our essence, what does
 it mean, put on Christ?
 We put on Christ.
 He's further explaining what does it mean.
 Basically, our essence, our spiritual self-identity, and the content of our personality is Christ
 himself.
 And he is one, so we are one.
 And everything else is external to that.
 Whether we are Russians, Americans, Chinese, Japanese, Taiwanese, all those things, they
 are not relevant, they're secondary, and maybe not even secondary.
 They don't determine who we are, what we are, our social position.
 We are, I don't know, big businessmen, holy guards, kings, queens, or we are slaves.
 We are some proletariat, peasants, I don't know, homeless, again, this also doesn't mean
 much.
 We could be, you see, for the Lord, if you can see that in your soul, there is Christ,
 this becomes more precious, even though maybe you are some peasant or some, I don't know,
 have no social position, is complete failure in terms of social status, you don't have
 a resume because you have nothing to write, you're completely nothing, socially speaking,
 and no money and nothing, only debts.
 You are closer to God and more precious than the king and oligarchs and very influential
 people who have newspapers and everything.
 You are more precious and important to the Lord than they at this moment.
 So not more important, you have more honor, you carry more blessing from the Lord than
 you carry, and it's not your achievement, it's not your credit, you should not be credited
 to you with the Lord's grace which brought you to this state, to this situation.
 So we see that nation, history, culture is secondary.
 We see that your social things is secondary, your proletariat, the wars, they happen because
 of that, we have wars between nations, we have wars between different classes, strikes
 and all kinds of things.
 And also, what we see here, no Jew nor Greek, here is actually not talking about nationality,
 here is talking more about the basic attitude towards the divine, different religion or
 different world view, especially the spiritual world.
 So these are two basic concepts that exist until now, and Christian is neither of them.
 The first is expanding God to everywhere, different powers of nature or different gods
 or bodhisattvas, and they have different goals and conflicting interests, and there is some
 kind of strife going on between divine realm, so it's like breaking God apart and spilling
 him all over, there could be pantheist, there could be polytheist, there could be many different
 versions of it.
 And most modern sects and heresies is also some kind of neo-paganism, the new age and
 all those things, Buddhism, Hinduism and many other things.
 Even communism in many sense is also creating idols, and consumerism, you have those idols,
 you have Lady Gaga and many other things, it's also neo-pagism.
 So when we create ourselves an idol, worship this idol, worship what we want to purchase,
 worship different, I don't know, trademarks, series, whatever, ladies' jeans, all these
 advertisements, it's paganism that we have all over, because it's not so important for
 a person, but it brings some kind of divine with it, it tries to persuade you to buy things,
 to associate yourself with some kind of brand or something, it's our marginal culture, different
 music groups, it all becomes paganism, because you have idols.
 And the other world view, the Jewish, was to narrow God, to make him narrow, narrow
 in the way that he provides commandments, he is strict, and so on, so we don't have
 God's love, we don't have the Word of God.
 It's basically monotheism without love, without Holy Spirit, without God, Son, and him coming
 to the world, and him making the people united with God through the Word, and without Holy
 Spirit, without grace, without blessing, without the life that is streamed to your heart, that
 is changing you, that is bringing you to the truth and to holiness.
 So this is what it is, a very narrow understanding of God and bringing him to the other opposite
 of real God, to this also mammon, you become a worship mammon, it's a perverted God, that
 is why they were expecting the Antichrist instead of Christ, and this is why people
 in the end will be also expecting Antichrist.
 So this is another topic, in Christ neither of these works, in Christ we find the faith
 in the Holy Trinity and it is exceeding all these limited and perverted wrong views about
 God and divine and religion.
 So any religious war is also on that ground, there are different leaders, Muslims, Jews
 and many many other conflicts, religious war.
 And the last, there is no man nor woman, no male nor female in Christ, and it is even
 more difficult to understand.
 And I tell people who come into the church that here you live away, you live outside,
 whether you are male, female, whatever, your child, your adult, your old person, all those
 things, just live outside.
 But here we are a new creature in Christ, we are a new creature.
 What does it mean?
 We can look at it from a different perspective.
 We can see that someone who is very strong, body, powerful, male, he can carry trucks
 or whatever, compared to some feeble, some sick woman who cannot even walk, maybe she
 has stronger faith and stronger heart and more courage in her heart coming from the
 Lord, from her love to the Lord, than this big and with big muscles like that and he
 doesn't have any of that.
 So he has no strength, he will be like Jeff, just smash the ring, but she will face any
 challenge, any persecution, any temptation, or she will drive away any temptation, because
 of that strength, so because of spiritual content, that in her there is Christ.
 So we don't look at these external physical abilities and characteristics, that is one
 understanding, another understanding we can have is that when we are in Christ we look
 at God the Father, we are in a dialogue with God the Father, and for us all earthly interests,
 with sexual desires, they disappear, we don't look at people as that, we look at people
 as children of God, creation of God, brothers and sisters, there is nothing else, there
 is only this, and all other thoughts, they just disappear.
 So for us we don't perceive, I am man in this room, no, it's over, it's okay, we
 don't have that thing, that temptation, it has to go away if we carry Christ, if we have
 Christ living in here.
 So this is something that we hear many times, but we don't live like that, we don't have
 that reality happening in our heart.
 So today I hope this is just a good reminder that we are still far, and there are many
 things that we need to do to change, so even the nature is over, we will overcome the nature
 when we are in Christ.
 And another important thing is that the Antichrist, the mammal, is trying to mimic this union
 that we gain only in God with Christ.
 The Antichrist, he wants us not to put on Christ, he wants us to put on Antichrist,
 and what is it?
 This is destruction, when we have unisex, you can say it's also, you don't know,
 it's a guy, or it's a boy, it's a girl, what is it, who is it, but it's not because they
 put on Christ, they put on Antichrist, because just corrupted in the soul, the heart, is
 corrupted to such extent that it already doesn't matter, guy, boy, with whom he has some dirty
 intercourse, it already doesn't matter to him, to her, to it, you can have 63 different
 genders, you can have whatever, but that's not because of overcoming your gender thing
 in Christ, this is because of corruption.
 And there is a garbage in the dumpsite, it's all corrupted, it's all decomposing, decaying,
 it also looks like it's all about the same, it used to be apples and oranges, but now
 it's just a mess of some compost, some smelly stuff, it's just garbage, or there is even
 another analogy, but I won't use it, it's all the same stuff, looks the same, but it's
 not union, it's not union in Christ, it's union of corruption, destruction, Antichrist.
 And when we hear that you are no longer, you don't care about your nationality, your country,
 whatever, you are man of the world, you go to any country, you live in any country, you
 have mindset which is outside of the box of any country, so you communicate with other
 people, everybody has the same YouTube, Facebook, it's all one village, world village, so there
 is not much difference between different people, different countries, this is also not a union
 in Christ, because all these people will not have true love towards each other.
 It's not based on love, it's based on profit selfishness, on all kinds of attachment to
 this world, to the profit, to the benefit, to entertainment that you want to get, to
 the passions, it's full of earthly, dirty passions, and also to arrive to that kind
 of union, they use wars, revolutions, and all kinds of, making people stupid through music,
 through gadgets that people don't want to read anymore, they cannot be independent in
 what they think, what they judge, they all become like a herd, like a little swine that
 just rushed through one direction, this is what they want, this is the society of the
 future that they want, cyber trash, cyberpunk, cyber trash, and it has nothing to do with
 union in Christ with Christ, so let us not confuse the two unions, one in Christ in God,
 in love with God, in holy life, in the body of Christ, and another one is this anti-christian
 union from the mammon, from below, from the hell, hell is also one, and the final kingdom
 of anti-christ also will be one world kingdom, everybody there will want one leader, they
 will not talk about differences, no wars, and that will bring them profit, comfort,
 and other things, they will think that it will bring, eventually it will fail, but this
 is why they will be willing to embrace it, but we have to be one in Christ, we will have
 to be attached to the sanctity, to love, to have, to put on Christ, to be one in Christ,
 so that everyone one of us can be representative of Christ, that other people can see Christ
 on us, through us, with us, they can have some experience of true Christ and true love,
 may the Lord give us this spiritual talent to seek Him, to overcome all self, to kill
 this mammon inside us, and to receive his blessing and his guidance, I mean, especially now during
 the great land, let us put all the effort to approach Christ, to have Him dwell in our
 hearts, I mean, God bless.
