 Dear brothers and sisters, today the Holy Church celebrates the entrance of the Lord to Jerusalem and this will bring us to another topic.
 There is a lot of material about the entrance of the Lord to Jerusalem.
 Exegetical, pastoral, biblical, all kinds of material.
 So I will not focus just on this. I want to talk also today about the coldness of faith.
 About the problem that why the faith is weaker in our days than in the early times of Christianity.
 Why this happens does not mean that God is not around or that the church has changed, it is a different church.
 What does it mean? How come?
 And first of all, what do I mean by saying that there is a weakening of the faith?
 Well, in the early church we can see that people pray all night, every day.
 Very many people. They had everything surrendered for Christ, for the ministry.
 They sold everything they had, they had everything in common. They didn't call things "this is mine, this is yours".
 They were busy with the Word of God all the day long and with the deeds of mercy.
 And others, when they came into some Christian community, they understood it's holy people, saints.
 So they either joined and had this tremendous change also happen with them.
 Or they stayed away, they could not just hang around.
 And many other examples. When they were fasting, they were not eating anything for many days.
 When they were praying, things were happening. They prayed for healing, the healing happened.
 They prayed for resurrection, the person resurrected. They moved mountains by the faith.
 Allegorically, even physically, there is a record when the mountain has moved and when the sun went backwards.
 And many other things. We read from the holy times of holy fathers.
 And when we read their spiritual writings, we see that it's full of grace.
 We don't find things like this around this time.
 So the question comes. Why is this so? Why is there a difference?
 Well, the answer is that the church has not changed in its essence.
 He has preserved the faith of the apostles and the access to all the gifts of grace that the Lord is willing to give us.
 And he says that the mind of... has the mind of his hand diminished or has the grace been taken away?
 No. His hand is as mighty as it always was. And the grace is as plenteous as it always was.
 But we are not receiving, we're not willing to receive this grace to the extent we can.
 We're not we as we, but it's possible for us if we're ready, if we're willing.
 And so all of that is preserved. But the people are not as eager to receive what they can.
 This is like having the treasures, the box of treasures that was passed over.
 And you can use it and you'll be beautiful if you're a woman.
 Or it's like a toolbox. You have those tools, all kinds of very nice and useful tools passed over to you.
 But you don't know how to use it. Or I don't know, some laser or something, I don't know.
 It's passed over and you can use it, but you don't know how to use it. So it's no use.
 So a lot of people who come to the church, they're not learning how to use it.
 Including the priests and monks sometimes don't use this to the extent they could.
 So what is the reason? What is the reason? The reason is connected directly to the entrance of the Lord to Jerusalem.
 The reason, the main factor, the source of this ability is in repentance.
 What we are lacking now is deep, true repentance. And repentance is turning away from our selfishness, from our sins.
 Making the breakthrough and putting our eyes, fixing it on the Lord and serving Him.
 As a fallen people, we are selfish. We care about our own benefit, our own well-being, our own happiness.
 What will make me happy? And people are searching, where should I go? What vacation?
 Where should I, how do I spend my time to get the most out of it? How do I have a healthier life?
 We only care about our selfish selves. And this is why we're losing the truth.
 And including most of faithful, most of Christians, they have property, they have salary, they have this, they have that.
 We have this. And when we're bound, we're bound by all this materialistic stuff.
 This worldly stuff, earthly stuff, we're bound by, we're determined by it, by who we are, what is in our resume,
 what is in who we know, who can help us, who cannot, our bills, our rights, whatever.
 All this earthly stuff. And this is what happened in the entrance of the Lord to Jerusalem.
 Because those people who are greeting him, "Yes, yes, you are Messiah because you resurrected Lazarus, you've done miracles.
 Yes, come over, come in." Okay, all this Israel of that time.
 And the Lord is coming in and they got disappointed. And in just a few days, they cry the exact opposite, they cry crucify Him crucified.
 We want Barabbas and we don't want this one. And this happens with every one of us, including all the faithful.
 I'm talking about Orthodox Christians. And we are sinning. Why are we sinning?
 We are sinning because of that. We're switching back and forth.
 And there is a lot of this stuff in us. In the heart, Jerusalem of our heart, Jerusalem represents heart.
 The Lord is entering into our heart. He needs to enter into our heart. But many voices in there will cry, "No, no, we don't want to."
 So this is the big problem. If we repent deeply and we cry about our sins and we really refuse all selfishness, we throw it away, we leave only for the Lord.
 Our aim becomes the Lord and how to serve Him. And we forget about ourselves, our own things, agenda.
 Only then we gain the true life, we gain the true faith and the Lord will be with us.
 And His great might and power will be with us in our life, transforming us, transforming the reality around us.
 And this is preserved in the whole Church. And outside, you can see many groups and sects and heresies.
 And even communists who have the zeal, have the willingness to do things, to overthrow the whole world, do revolutions and whatever.
 But so why they are so active and we are so fast? Well, their activity, their zeal is flamed, kindled by mammon, by the devil.
 Why? Because they don't have any repentance. If we go look deeply, there is no repentance, there is no confession,
 there is no cry for all sins, there is no self-condemnation, which happens of the All-Self.
 So this flame, this zeal is coming from somewhere else, not from the Lord, not from the Lord.
 And we, when we begin to fight with these passions, we become like, we cannot do anything, we become weak.
 Because we don't have that passion behind it, driving us to do this and that.
 So for us to bring the fruits of fame, we need to go one step further.
 And this is, we can see it from the Lord sitting on the donkey.
 This donkey represents this matter, this earthly world, the passions that we have.
 He subdues all of that. He is the winner. It's the triumphant entering. That's why they have the palm trees.
 It's when the triumph, the king is coming with the triumph, then when they have to have these palm trees.
 So he's coming as the triumphant king, the winner. And he won this matter and this world,
 the prince of this world is overthrown. But people are not willing to go all the way that way.
 They don't understand what's happening. Most of them, even apostles, they understood it later.
 They saw that, that's in the prophecy of Zechariah, that this had to happen.
 So they understood that later. And also by the donkey, there is a lot of symbolism around the donkey,
 which is important. It represents this stubborn person, mankind, that is not willing,
 and the Lord is taking him to serve the Lord and to raise to Jerusalem.
 So during this land, that now the 40 days of land are over, the great land, and now we have the Passion Week,
 during this week we need to go from donkey, from animal, from also from stubborn, also we need to
 become free in the Lord, become man, become human by the likeness of the Lord. We need to gain this
 freedom, spiritual freedom, and this decisiveness to not be determined by the laws of this world,
 earthly world. And we see that also, Postal John tells us, this is in chapter 12, the whole story,
 that some people of the rulers, they believed in Christ, but they kept it in secret. Why?
 Because they loved the glory of this world more than the glory of the God. So also this prince of
 this world, they were afraid of losing their job, they were afraid of becoming marginal,
 losing the salaries, and okay, being despised by everybody. So they did not want, they did not want
 to go to the full extent. You believe, you just throw everything away, just do what the Lord tells
 you to do. Okay, so the Word of God is painful. The Lord says, today the judgment is taking place.
 What judgment? The judgment is that everyone has to make a choice. It's either this or that,
 there is nothing in the middle. You're either with the Lord or you're not. Can it's just, oh yes,
 I believe, no, we need to have this decision. You're either with him or you're not with him.
 If you're with him till the end, you have to burn away with his grace everything in your heart that
 is against. If there is something, yet you treasure something, no, you need to get rid of it.
 Okay, you need to get rid of it and only then you can enter into the kingdom of heaven
 with the Lord as he does, enter into Jerusalem. And you can have the Lord live in your heart,
 okay, enter into your heart now and live in your heart. And that's what gives us these great gifts
 of the Holy Spirit that we see in the early church. There is no other mysticism allowed.
 It's because of the lack of our decisiveness, our repentance, because of our worldliness,
 because we still, we want to serve the prince of this world, our corrupted, selfish, agoristic self.
 Let us make this decision, let us be ready to be with the Lord no matter what. We need to lose
 everything including our life to be with him till to the end and to make him the main priority in
 our life and not something else. And then we will also see the fruits of grace grow, increase in us,
 in our heart, in our life. May the Lord be with us, help us and give us this flame,
 make it stronger, make it firm, make it drive us every day of our life to serve him and only him.
 I mean, God bless.
