 Dear brothers and sisters, now we are in the Passion Week.
 We are on the way to Golgotha together with Christ.
 And today I want to say about the suffering, not just the suffering of Christ, but what
 we are suffering, why we are suffering this.
 And this mystery of why so few people will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven, so that the
 whole Israel that was the chosen people, those who are called, and so few of them enter into
 the Kingdom of Heaven.
 Because the Lord, their Messiah came and millions of those Jews, they were all supposed to meet
 the Messiah, but they refused him.
 And his passions, they result from this refusal, this rejection.
 That's why he was humiliated, betrayed, trialed, condemned to death and died in a painful and
 miserable way.
 Why this happened?
 Because we very often we take it for granted.
 I believe in God, I believe in Jesus, I go to the Kingdom of Heaven, of course, I go
 to the Kingdom of Heaven.
 But is this really that easy?
 We see that all those Jews, and moreover, those Jews, they were much more virtuous.
 They respect their family, their parents more than we do.
 They labor, they do work every day much more than we do.
 They don't have so much corruption in their mind, in their hearts as we do.
 But yet we think that, oh, no problem, I'll go to heaven.
 We are more proud, more arrogant, more selfish, more very vainglorious.
 We have all kinds of problems, but we don't see it, of course, we think we're fine, good.
 So today I want to talk about this, and in this context, we also look at the parable
 of the ten virgins.
 Five of them were smart and five stupid, because the church also remembers, recalls this parable
 during these days of the Passion Week.
 Okay, so you see, first we need to look at the limitations, every one of us.
 We're limited by many things.
 We don't have time, all the time, I want to do this, this, this, but I just have that
 much time.
 We're limited by resources, by financial, financially we're limited, we're limited by
 our passions, selfishness, I'm stingy, or I have all kinds of, I'm lazy, or all kinds
 of passions we have, or I want this, I want to buy this, this, that, I'm taking debt and
 many other things, and so I'm overloaded with all that pressure, that also puts some limits,
 some restrictions on me.
 Then we have other restrictions coming from the, just here in Taiwan, okay, we have so
 much population, you feel this, you're limited by the space you're in, by everything else,
 it's just jammed.
 Some people are economically poor countries, you're limited by the number of things you
 can do, because it's just a poor country, okay, or it's war going on, okay, that's even
 much worse, of course, so there are all kinds of restrictions, limitations, we're prisoners
 of these conditions we're living in, okay.
 In our daily life sometimes we have some evil things happen, okay, this day, okay, that's
 another hit that we're getting, okay, we don't have people who help us, who have same ideas
 as we do, and then we just get upset about life and about everything, okay, and what
 can be done, okay.
 The big thing that also results from the life that we go through is that we become not productive,
 okay, we become lazy to do the things, the right things, okay, we become disorganized,
 we forget things, okay, we do things till we have time and then we throw it and we switch
 to something else, okay, we have limited knowledge about things, okay, it's all kinds of limitations
 that we are prisoners of these limitations, okay, so now what can be done and how is this
 related to the passions of Christ?
 Let us read the Gospel of John chapter 12, first we take a look at verse 27, the Lord
 is on his way, he enters to Jerusalem, he's on his way, he will go into Jerusalem, just
 in the, okay, he is on this path of entering into Jerusalem and he says, "Now is my soul
 troubled and what shall I say, Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause I came
 unto this hour."
 So he is saying, "Well, should I ask my father not to have these things happen, these sufferings
 that I'm facing?"
 I said, "No, this is what I came for, this is my mission, I came for this suffering and
 for this death, even though it's very painful and as a human I don't want to die but I submit
 myself to go through all these things."
 So to better understand what's the message to us, let's read the previous verses, beginning
 from verse 24, he says, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall
 into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit."
 So this is the reason why he needs to die, if he dies, this will bring great fruit.
 So for us, if our selfish self dies, we will bring much fruit.
 The self that wants this, wants that, possesses this, has resume, has things, contacts, resources
 and whatever, some future projects, it's all my thing.
 When this thing just dies out, for me, it's nothing.
 The Lord Christ serve him, reach the kingdom of heaven, this becomes the priority, then
 I will bring this fruit and this fruit is also represented by that oil that was preserved
 by those smart virgins, okay, that parable, I will not just describe the whole parable
 and the different meanings that are all built in this parable, but you remember, there were
 five smart ones who had enough oil and when the groom came, they were able to meet him
 and go to this celebration to fulfill their role as those small girls are holding that
 lamp, oil lamps, but the other five, it was a long time, they were waiting, everybody
 fell asleep, they were waiting for the groom to come, for the groom to come and when he
 came, the lamps, they already burnt out the oil, so they didn't have enough oil and they
 had to go to buy some extra and by the time they came back, it's too late, the doors are
 shut and they don't go in, they want it and this is the same thing, we do want to go into
 kingdom of heaven, but do we really do and think in advance, what will I need to enter
 that kingdom of heaven, are we smart?
 Those smart ones, wise ones, they had that thinking, okay, if this happens, if that happens,
 we have extra, we have some, okay, so this is what the Lord is telling us, pay attention
 to details, be organized, think, be smart about what, about your salvation, about entering
 to the kingdom of heaven, about serving me, about dying, having your old self dying, okay,
 if you have that mindset, only then you have a chance to enter, if you just say, oh, like
 they said, children of Abraham, we just pray, we just do things as everybody else, okay,
 of course we go in there, of course, why not?
 But no, they did not recognize Christ and then in the most important moment, they fail
 and they, they are away, they happen to be in the wrong place, later they are misled
 even more into the wrong religion, okay, so let us, let us think about these things, also
 verse, also chapter 12, John 12 26, if any man serve me, let him follow me, and where
 I am, there shall also my servant be, if any man serve me, him will my father honor, and
 that's salvation, when we are honored by God and we are in the kingdom of heaven, we end
 up in the kingdom of heaven, so we need to think, am I where Jesus is, especially during
 this time, when he is following the suffering, he is going to Gogotha, am I there, have I
 throw away all other agendas that I have, my passions, my, my sins, whatever, and do
 I follow there, okay, so practically what, what does it, okay, what does it mean for
 us for our daily life, okay, we pray, okay, without any eagerness, sometimes we pray,
 sometimes we don't, okay, we read the gospel, the Bible, sometimes we do, sometimes we don't,
 we're busy, we're this, that, we know that we need to learn Holy Fathers and about spiritual
 life, but do we really do that, well, maybe later, when I retire, maybe then, then, when
 I, okay, do we do the labor that we need to do, okay, help others, okay, care for those
 people who we're responsible for, do we serve the Lord in that way, well, sometimes when
 we have time, when we feel like it, okay, but most of the time we don't, okay, most
 of the time we're busy with caring about ourselves, okay, do we study, do we learn, do we, do
 we grow as the Lord, the Holy Spirit, the meaning of the Holy, Ruach HaKodesh, is Holy
 Kodesh, holiness, also means progress, go forth, go straight, go, go, be, be, be straight,
 be strong and go forth, it has many meanings in it, okay, so the Holy Spirit wants to blow
 so that we go in the path to our ship, goes, sails in the path of salvation, but we need
 to have those sails so that we can sail, okay, otherwise we will, it will not move, it will
 move somewhere else, okay, so we need to really put effort and focus on this today, what can
 I do to serve the Lord, to gather some oil, okay, for salvation, what is the Lord expecting
 me to do, am I moving in the wrong direction, okay, we need self-discipline in terms of
 spiritual life, we need to think ahead, to be smart, okay, I need this, this, this, this,
 now, we need to look into detail, okay, these, these things, they are important, details
 are important, about spiritual life, about faith, details are important, okay, if you
 forget about details, your plane leaves at 10 30 or 10 35, okay, you count time and it's
 about 10 30, and say it leaves 10 25, so you're thinking 10 30, you know that those just couple
 minutes and you don't get on the plane, it's nothing, it was two minutes, but it can mean
 so much, okay, it can mean a great deal, okay, we have some, I don't know, we are handling
 some instruments, okay, if you're not careful, it drops, your floor is broken, say it's a
 glass floor, okay, and then you need to fix the whole floor, you need to spend a great
 amount of money and time, but it was just, you need to just carry those instruments in
 the, okay, in the right order, okay, and you thought, oh, it's okay, I just drop it here,
 I just carry, it drops, and you're stuck, okay, so, details are important, our attitude,
 the way we care about the matter of salvation, dying, so that we can be born and live for
 Christ, okay, what we do, okay, when we think about somebody, okay, say it's some famous
 person, okay, some politician, some writers, I don't know, whoever, okay, when we, when
 he dies, we hear, oh, somebody died, what is our first thoughts, okay, if we are Christian,
 if we are faithful, our first thoughts would not be, oh, how much money does he have in
 the bank when he died, or what is his property when he died, who is gonna get it, or say,
 what did he have in his resume, okay, he's got that, that, that, or some medals, he has
 some signs of distinction, okay, all those things, no, we don't really care about that,
 we think about where is he now, is he with Christ in the Kingdom of Heaven, did he, did
 his whole life, did his soul embrace the Kingdom of Heaven so that he is now with Christ, is
 that the case, or no, if no, everything else, it's, it's, it's, it's not big joy, okay,
 he's got this, he's got, he's done that, he's got some achievement, if we know that, well,
 it's unlikely, he died in sin, and in hatred, or in something else, okay, it's, it's, well,
 being honest, it's unlikely that now he is a saint in the heavens, okay, so then, everything
 else, also important, okay, so, this is what matters, because when we haven't died yet,
 okay, we think that so many things matter, but these matters, that, that's important,
 this important, but at the end, there are things that are much more important than all
 of those things, and maybe we should not run around like crazy, trying to fix all those
 things, but we need to focus on the faith, on Christ, on salvation, are we following
 him, are we where he is, and now he is processing to go both on, and we want to be with him,
 may the Lord give us this heart, protect us from every evil, from eternal temptations,
 give us his blessing, give us this joy of his salvation, that we are those few, among
 those few who really were faithful to him till the end, and love him with all their
 heart, without any reservation, may we be numbered among them, and may his joy and glory
 come down upon us, and people around us, I mean, God bless.
