 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 We are in this Paschal celebration, in this joy, we will be in it for 40 days.
 And even though the world is in darkness, in pain, in deceit, we still have this great
 joy of the resurrected Lord.
 And I hope even when the final Antichrist comes and reigns and things are going to get
 really bad for true Christians, we still will have this Paschal joy celebration.
 And I think now, last time we've talked about war and if the Church is supportive of war.
 Today I want to say also, regarding to this, to have some more concrete conclusions, statements,
 vision for the future, especially what we have to do, each and every one of us.
 And I also hope that today's video will help everyone gain a better world view.
 Because everything we do, we do it, well hopefully, because of some world view that we have.
 That's how we consider what we hear in the news and stuff.
 And I've mentioned before that we need to get rid of this 2D reality.
 It's either this or that and you know, sleeping, listening to the media, what the media says
 or to some speakers what they say.
 And just based on that, have a flat understanding, because what's flat?
 Flat doesn't have any spiritual content to it.
 But if we want to be children of Christ and we want to be his soldiers and carry out his
 mission, we do need to have spiritual life and spiritual dimension to the world view
 that we have.
 So that's why if you just listen to me, that won't be enough.
 We need to learn to have spiritual life, to live in Christ, to pray, to change our life
 according to the Holy Gospel, to repent, to live united with Christ, to receive the Holy
 Eucharist.
 But nevertheless, I want to share with everyone what is my thinking about what's going on.
 The plan of this Prince of the World, call it Santa and call it the spirit of Antichrist,
 no matter how you call it, now became evident, at least for me.
 I don't impose my view on you.
 I just want to share with you what is my discovery until now.
 And this plan seems to be very successful, going very successfully, and very horrible.
 It's horrible when we look at it without faith.
 If we just look at this plan as though just us exist and we are people and we are facing
 this reality that's out there.
 But it's not like that because we have the Lord and the Lord, He has His own plan.
 And that plan is much wiser and much more all comprehensive, and this plan of the Lord
 is good and there is nothing better, it's perfect.
 And we need to become more and more parts of this plan.
 And He's even using this Antichrist and all this evil stuff that's out there for His own
 goals.
 So let us first talk about bad things.
 What is this plan?
 The plan, if we put it in short, is to cancel big Russia, what's it, Rus.
 Rus is Ukraine, Russia, Belarus.
 It used to be one, and to cancel the Russian Orthodox Church as the biggest Orthodox Church.
 To split the Orthodox Church into pieces, to fracture, so that it cannot have any influence.
 And the biggest one, just to cancel, what means to cancel Russia, to cancel the church?
 Not that it's disappeared into a vacuum, it's just annihilated, no.
 To make it completely lose its own identity and, in phrase, integrated into this post-Christian,
 anti-Christian world of tomorrow.
 And we need to get rid of two basic political positions, or views of the world.
 One view is that there is the free world that's trying to prevent this crazy Russian president
 from attacking Ukraine, and in this world, you will hear it in the media and everywhere.
 This is false.
 Another view, the opposite of it, that Russia is struggling, is trying to revive its former
 might and empire, and it wants to bring good things to people.
 It wants to combat this sodomy, these anti-Christian Western values.
 It wants to explain to Ukrainians that they are Russians, and we are all one, and we should
 be one, so it's all for the good cause, and that's why it's fine.
 That's another worldview, which is broadcast by Russia.
 Many people in Russia believe this, and not only in Russia, and people put their hope
 on Russia, because of that view.
 This view is also not correct.
 What is the view that is more correct is that there is darkness, and also we will see that
 all of that builds in, including this modern sickness that we have for over two years now,
 and all the measures that are done because of that fancy sickness, all that project,
 and the war that is going on.
 It's all one thing, actually, it's all together, and it's all going according to the plan of
 Antichrist.
 So there is this darkness, the worldview that we gain from the Holy Scripture, including
 the apocalypse, the revelation that was given to Saint John about the future is coming.
 So this darkness is trying to overcome the light.
 The light, what is the light?
 The light is Christ and His church, not the institution, but people who are united with
 Him and who are faithful to Him, who carry out the mission that He gives continually.
 And these people are few, very few, and this darkness is large, is big, and this darkness
 is trying to, it's everything, it's economics, politics, it's using everything you can, the
 passion of people, the blindness of people, this comprehensive darkness is getting bigger
 and bigger.
 And Devil, he is like the lion who is trying to catch even those who are chosen and to
 eat them up.
 So we can make the following conclusion.
 This darkness that we have now is playing on both sides, both governments everywhere,
 both in Russia and in Ukraine, and in the whole world, this agenda, they're all playing
 one game, and people are thinking, "Wow, there is this war going on between Russia and Ukraine."
 It's a game, it's a big trick, and both Russian people and Ukrainian people are in this trap
 of the Devil.
 The Devil, he is now hoping to eat up, to catch, not just some few Christians, he is
 willing to catch the whole Orthodox Church, the whole, just get out of it, but we won't
 let him do that, we won't allow him to do that.
 So he was able through propaganda, through all kinds of, to make people believe that
 this is good and true, and they are fighting with evil, and that the leader of Russia is
 a good Orthodox Christian, and he is also fighting for the right cause.
 But it's all fake, it's all fake.
 He is neither Nicholas II, Tsar, nor is he Stalin.
 And at that time the First World War was begun by this world, the people who rule the world,
 in order to, one of the reasons they've done it, many reasons, is also to bring the New
 World War, and to bring down the empire of Russia.
 Then things went not exactly as they planned, and the next step was to take down Stalin,
 and the Soviet Union, and they could not succeed, so there was the Second World War.
 I won't go in detail, because it's not about politics, the lesson, the video I'm making
 is not about politics, but it's not that I don't know about politics, because I lived
 in both those countries, I've studied in Ukraine, my childhood I spent in Ukraine, I have, most
 of my relatives are Ukrainian, and I lived in Russia for most, and our parish is mainly
 Ukrainians and Russians, so I know what I'm talking about, when I'm talking about politics
 and national, ethnic things, and things like that, nationalism.
 So they could not do it right away with Stalin at that time, so they've tried, but eventually
 if he was killed and the Soviet Union was brought down, so the New World War or the
 next level of the New World War came, and now they are hoping to bring about the new
 level of New World War, and to do that they need also to cancel Russia completely, so
 to do that, they also needed, it was like with Iraq, they allowed Iraq to invade Kuwait,
 and then he was hit, and then after another 13 years, Saddam Hussein's regime was torn
 down, so something similar, Putin plays a bad guy, he cows and he invades, and then
 he'll be kicked out, and there will be a big turmoil in Russia and his regime will fall,
 and the whole Russia is gonna be put through like really terrible time, maybe hunger, I
 don't know what, maybe like really bad things, after which people are gonna be willing to
 embrace this New World Order, and they won't have any identity or rules anymore, so it's
 gonna be a new system, and there will be still people who will leave, it's not that it's
 gonna be annihilated, many of them will die of course, but it's not that it's gonna be
 all annihilated, but in terms of identity, in terms of faith, in terms of culture, it's
 gonna be just leveled, and completely integrated into this New World Order, and the whole agenda
 of the fancy sickness is also contributing to that, so that it will be one absolute power
 in the world.
 Now, there is, of course, people who control a lot of things, talk about deep states, and
 you know, families or clans that they control, but it's not direct and absolute control,
 and what Antichrist wants and needs, he needs total absolute control, and this is one of
 the goals of this whole big reset that's going on, so democracy is gonna go down and down,
 and the new form of socialism is gonna come up, and it's gonna be done through a series
 of revolutions, Trotsky's idea of permanent revolution, just break everything up to bring
 this new leader, so, okay, again, it's quite dark and gloomy, what I've drawn, this picture,
 but as I said, with the Lord, any darkness is nothing, we have no fear, we have no fear
 of Antichrist, of anything, okay, we've experienced great Antichrists who've killed and seduced
 millions of people, and the new one is also not something unseen of, unheard of, and now,
 of course, now it's global, and now it's total, and now it's much more tricky, but we're not
 gonna give up so easily, he thinks that it's just, he's gonna, if everybody knows, it's
 not gonna happen, okay, and with the faith in Christ, his power, this power of this darkness
 brings on this world, is money, influence, economics, passions of people, the hatred,
 the proudness, pain, glory, all kinds of greed, lust, and all that stuff, that's what is the
 power of this regime, this control, and also put people all into this new utopian world
 with virtual reality and many other things, okay, but with us, with those who chose to
 follow Christ and to be his ministers, is the power that we have, is the power of faith,
 and this power can overthrow everything, because with us is Lord himself, like David and Goliath,
 this big giant was coming, but David, God was with him, gave it, he just threw a stone
 and that giant fell, so as long as we are with the Lord, even be it one, two, three
 people, not millions and gazillions of people, okay, all these plans can be overthrown, Lord
 permitting, maybe the Lord wants this to happen, the Lord wants this Golgotha to take place,
 we don't know, but in any case, we should be ready and we should not be afraid of anything.
 One of the tools that is used is fear, fear of death, that's why this fancy thing, fear
 be marginalized, or something else, and we must have strength not to have any fear, to
 have faith, strong faith, the Lord said, when the Son of Man will come, and his second coming,
 will he find any faith on earth, it's gonna be so few, that he's hardly gonna find any,
 so we should be those who still have faith and strong faith, powerful faith that can
 move mountains, this is our goal, may the Lord give us this joy, this blessing, during
 the worst times of Soviet Union, when everybody ran and believed this propaganda, or were
 in fear or whatever, there were still people who were, who became saints, more canonized,
 in 1920s, 30s, in all those terrible times, and of course throughout all times, so even
 in those bad, really bad anti-Christian times, we have people who were saved, but it was
 few, very few, so the goal for us also, for every each and every one of us, is to step
 on that path, and be on that path firmly, that would lead us to this salvation, and
 to the Lord's glory, to be faithful to him even till the end, may we have such faith,
 may the Lord give us his joy, be with us, his power of his resurrection, changing us
 from within, giving us his light, his joy, his revelation, and we will do his will in
 this world, in our life, I mean, may the Lord bless you, your relatives, families, everyone
 who you love, and protect you from every evil, I mean, Christ is with you, indeed he is with
