 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is Risen.
 Last few times we've talked about some problems of this world, including war and the sickness.
 And it is important to see where is this line if we slip into politics and into earthly
 matters and where is the spiritual discourse.
 To make this distinction, and not to slip into politics and other things, we need to
 talk about what does it mean to have the mind of Christ.
 Very few commentators these days directly explain these words.
 The big problem is that some people think that the Lord cannot change our mind.
 Our mind is our mind.
 This comes from the Protestant theology.
 We will not talk about theology today, we will talk about what is the wisdom of God
 and wisdom of this world, and we will see that these powerful, mighty people who rule
 the world, they don't know anything about the wisdom of God.
 Let's see.
 The Apostle Paul is saying in the 1 Corinthians 2, I recommend you read the whole chapter.
 In the beginning, he says, And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency
 of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.
 For I determined not to know anything about you, save Jesus Christ and him crucified.
 He knew that these people are pagans, they have a lot of questions about what is man,
 how the world is designed, where it comes from, what is the philosophy, the wisdom,
 and other things.
 He is very well educated, Apostle Paul, he knows many things, but he just talks with
 them about Jesus Christ, who is crucified.
 He doesn't want to talk about anything else, he wants them not to lose the focus.
 And this is why also, when I make these videos, I always think about, is this anyhow related
 to our faith in Jesus Christ?
 And if it's not, if it's just some political matter or some, I don't know, ideology or
 something else, I don't care about it.
 I just abandon that topic, I don't want to talk about it.
 But also, we can talk about more.
 And he says that "howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom
 of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to naught, but we speak the
 wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world
 unto our glory, which none of the princes of this world knew.
 For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory".
 So he says that we can talk about this wisdom of God.
 We can talk from a spiritual perspective about anything, because we will see another dimension.
 It's not that this world lives by its own laws, and it has its own wisdom, and we have
 nothing to do with this, no.
 We can understand everything, what's going on.
 However, our wisdom, our judgment about things is all from another level.
 And this another level, the most educated, the most powerful people of this world, with
 all the computers and artificial intelligence and whatever you want, they cannot get it.
 They don't get it.
 They don't get it, because they don't follow Christ.
 They don't choose Christ as their savior.
 And this means that everything they know, all those philosophies, wisdoms, whatever,
 be it anything, that's really flat, for the Lord it's flat.
 Not just flat, it's garbage, because in the previous chapter, chapter 120, beginning from
 120, the postal says "Where is the wise?
 Where is the scribe?
 Where is the disputor of this world?
 Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?
 For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world, by wisdom, knew not God; it pleased
 God by the foolishness of preaching, to save them that belief."
 So the wisdom of this world is foolish for the world, for God.
 He can understand all of it, but it's foolishness, it's garbage, it has no taste.
 So no matter if you, not you, if somebody has a bunch of degrees, Harvard, and he's
 a Nobel winner, Nobel Prize, or he is, I don't know, Guinness record, or he's got all the
 computer power, or whatever, for the Lord this is nothing.
 Because they have all the power, they rule the world, they have degrees, they have education,
 and also there are some secret societies, these free masons, or some powerful groups,
 Club of Rome, Bilderberg, or something else, they are so powerful, they are so mighty.
 These guys, they have, I don't know what, that's why they rule the whole world, they
 know economics, politics, they have data about everybody, and whatever, whatever, so this
 is like super mega mind out there.
 For the Lord is all garbage, is all nothing, because it's all flat, they don't understand
 the wisdom of God.
 So the heavenly wisdom is always above, immeasurably above, this earthly wisdom.
 So what is this wisdom all about?
 That's one question.
 And another question which relates to is how about those mystics, those which I've mentioned
 now, these secret cults and these occultists that rule the world now, we see their signs
 everywhere, they put some numbers, how about their secrets and the Kabbalah or whatever,
 this mystic in Blavatskaya from Tibet, or some, I don't know, Shangri-La, those secret
 knowledge and all this stuff, are those people who know that they're not the smartest and
 gay.
 So two questions.
 The first question, what is this wisdom, spiritual wisdom that the Lord has taught?
 We can also see from the, we look down in this same chapter 2, but God has revealed
 them unto us, the spiritual things by His Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things.
 Yeah, the deep things of God, even so the things of God knows no man, but the Spirit
 of God.
 So the Spirit of God knows everything, including those so-called wisdoms of this world.
 Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit, which is of God, that
 we might know the things that are freely given to us by God, which things also we speak,
 not in the words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing
 spiritual things with spiritual.
 Okay, I will read further in a moment, this is very important.
 We receive the Holy Spirit and we are able to discern things which are spiritual.
 To be able to do this, we need to believe in Christ, follow Christ in everything and
 become more and more like Him, humble in spirit, blessed are those poor in spirit.
 When we're getting poor in spirit, we're getting close, take up your cross and follow me.
 When we do take up our cross and follow Christ and enjoy following Christ, we're getting
 closer.
 Even if we're uneducated at all, we will gain the wisdom from the Lord.
 Very often people, let's talk about the political agenda that's happening in the world.
 Regular logic will ask what is the benefit.
 China has its benefit, America, Russia, Ukraine, whatever actors, corporations, what is mutual
 value.
 It's like a game, who wants what, some analytics, we do this analytics, this is completely flat.
 Yes, there are things like that out there, but there are reasons and meanings which are
 much deeper and they are in the spiritual realm.
 Not just this and economic progress, economic benefit, oil prices, this, this, this.
 Or some motivation, so we look behind what are our motivations and we can say, okay,
 the motivation for this leader is he wants glory, not just he wants power or money, resources.
 He wants glory.
 He wants to be the man or whatever.
 Yes, maybe, but this is also flat.
 Or safety, protection, somebody wants something for his future, personal gains and stuff like
 that.
 Or maybe some ideas, people are driven by ideas, you're driven by socialism, he's driven
 by nationalism, that one is driven by the idea of great Turkey, and this is driven by
 Islam, and this is driven by something else, these ideas motivate them, so it's not just
 because of some benefit.
 But this is also flat, for the Lord is flat, it's the wisdom of this world.
 So if we talk about things only from these perspectives which I mentioned, or we talk
 about some individuals or somebody talks about us, that we are driven by these factors, this
 means that we are completely earthly, worldly, there is nothing spiritual in our life.
 But if we talk about deeper things, those that pertain to Jesus Christ and what he taught
 and the revelation, then we are getting into the spiritual realm.
 Okay, so our behavior, so let's see what the rest, what the apostle tells us.
 From verse 14, we continue, "But the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit
 of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are
 spiritually discerned."
 Now, why sometimes it's so difficult to get what they are talking about, what is being
 told spiritual, I don't get it, it's too abstract, where is it, or it's too boring, okay, I need
 to know why these powerful, you know, economics, atomic bomb or some new weapons, these I understand.
 But when they talk about spiritual, what is this?
 This is because flesh cannot understand spirit, it cannot listen to what spirit is talking
 about.
 This is why so few people they would be following this channel, because it's too abstract and
 it's not so practical and things like that.
 Okay, verse 15, "But he that is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is judged
 of no man."
 So if he is spiritual, he can see why these things happen, why these people are motivated
 that way, those people are motivated this way.
 But they cannot judge him, they cannot understand why he's doing what he's doing, because they
 would use that logic, oh, this is his gain, this brings something good to him, or this
 is whatever.
 They are trying to see the gain that he can gain from this.
 But he is not judged, he cannot be judged, he's driven by the Spirit of God, and nobody
 can penetrate into the Spirit of God, okay?
 "For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him, discern or judge,"
 here this translation is not good, who can discern it, not him, the mind of God, who
 knows the mind of God, but we have the mind of Christ.
 This is the end of the chapter and this is the concluding word for these statements.
 So we have the mind of Christ, the apostle Paul says, what does it mean to have the mind
 of Christ?
 That was the question I advanced in the beginning, and it's not so easy to answer, because it
 doesn't mean that we are, we know all things like God does, or we are as smart, as knowledgeable
 as Christ, or we have the same mind as Christ, like same, same, of course not, if that would
 be the case, that we would do miracles, we would resurrect people, we would walk on the
 waters like Jesus Christ has done, we would talk directly with God the Father, receiving
 answers right away, and guidance and instructions and everything from him, but other people
 like that I haven't met yet.
 So we have the mind of Christ, that means that we are on the same wavelength as Christ,
 we can become, if we become purists, if we become bearers of our cross, if we learn what
 it means and takes to follow Christ in our life, be driven by the Spirit of God, be instructed
 by him in our daily life, which may be very small and simple life by earthly standards,
 maybe not some big president or whatever, and maybe even not so much so well educated,
 but we would have the mind of Christ, we would make the right decisions and discern things
 in the right way when we meet those things in our life, we will not be misled or deceived
 by Antichrist or by anything else, this is why we ask, lead us not into temptation but
 deliver us from the evil one, and this is our task, this is not easy to do, this is
 the task that the Lord wants us to be, to become holy, to become saints, every person
 who has set this goal will eventually gain the mind of Christ, but most people set other
 goals, material well-being and other things, and we become far away from the Lord, from
 the Spirit of God and from the divine wisdom.
 And the last thing that I wanted to say about these occultists and these people who have
 such big power, earthly power in this world, and they also hide their signs everywhere,
 we have 3, 3, 17, other numbers, 666, all they are here are some colors and some Masonic
 gestures, I don't want to show them here because it's all satanic stuff, they think
 themselves, that they have some secret power, that they are in communication with some,
 I don't know, they rule the world, and the whole world is just like pigs and dogs and
 all these people, they are just messes that you need to exploit and rule over, and just
 like a herd of pigs, but they are the illuminated, they are the bright ones, those four.
 This comes from the devil, this comes from the devil who is trying to mimic God, he knows
 that the wisdom of God exists, but he cannot penetrate into it, so he is trying to make
 some kind of surrogate, some kind of copy of that, and make people attracted by that,
 people who are willing to have some power, some influence in this world, to be attracted
 by that, he is seducing them to become like him, he himself is vainglorious and proud,
 and that's why this is a very pervert copy of the wisdom of God, the divine wisdom, or
 mysteries of God, so it is without God, without love towards God and other people, and that's
 why when people step on this way, on this path, they completely flip over and worship
 Saturn, and this is what happened in the time of Christ, they had this earthly logic, that
 it is better for one man to die than the whole people dies, let him die for us and we don't.
 What that meant, of course it didn't mean that they knew the plan of God and things
 like redemption, no, they just didn't want to follow Messiah, who proclaimed humbleness,
 taking up cross, taking up facing sufferings, accepting sufferings, turning another cheek
 when somebody hits you. Well, if everybody becomes like that, the robots will just come
 here and they will conquer us and we will be overwhelmed, so they have this earthly
 wisdom, earthly logic, that this is failure, we will fail, and not have any power, any
 future, any influence, so let's just kill him, get him more and we'll grow, we have
 more finance, we have more power, this, this, this, and we will gain what we want, and the
 real Messiah is going to come. So, why they had this logic? Because they didn't trust
 God, they didn't understand this wisdom of God, that he has the highest wisdom, and he
 has all the power, and he rules, and he makes this world run in the way he wants, they did
 not understand this, they did not acknowledge this power of God's wisdom, and this is why
 they crucified him. So, from this we can see that this world's logic is garbage, for the
 Lord is garbage, he has its own attractiveness, it's got its own logic, its own truths, but
 for the Lord it's all fake, it's all relative, it's all foolishness. So, we should not be
 afraid, we should not think that some people are super smart or they have super power,
 these occultists, or whatever, if they don't have Christ, they don't follow Christ, and
 this is why they don't have the true wisdom, and this is why their project is going to
 fail, and the Lord will overthrow all of that, and we may be even not so educated, but the
 Lord will be with us, his blessing is going to be with us, and the Lord is going to accomplish
 his plan. Okay, there are more things that I wanted to say today, but I think this will
 be too much for one video, so let us think about these things, let us not be afraid,
 let us learn how to gain the Spirit of Christ, let us learn how to follow him every day,
 that we are firmly on this path, and that we are gaining the true wisdom from the Lord.
 May our Lord Jesus Christ, the resurrected Messiah, be with every one of you, be guiding
 you, giving you this talent of spiritual wisdom, and give you the joy of his resurrection.
 Christ is risen, indeed he is risen.
