 "Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is the reason. Today I'm using a new microphone, so hopefully the sound is better."
 Today I want to say about narrative. This time we live in the world where everything is about narrative.
 In the past it was ideology, either communist, capitalist, marxist, whatever, but now all those days are gone.
 The new term for something that came instead of that is narrative.
 This is important because there are different narratives which we don't notice, but they lead us to think in a certain way.
 To have a certain world view, a certain direction, and even about some trends or something not so global, be it music, be it sports, be it whatever.
 People listen to some speakers and they sort of also receive that narrative and that world view that is brought by that speaker.
 If you have some speakers that you like and you listen often, you know what I'm talking about.
 His world becomes part of your life, your world. You see world through his eyes. Very often that's what's happening.
 We need to see the world through the eyes of Jesus Christ and to be within the narrative of Jesus Christ.
 Some people say, "Well, the church is teaching dogma, teaching some fixed things. You need to do this, this, this, believe this, this, this."
 Well, it's not relevant anymore. Maybe for some people, I don't know, in the Middle Ages that was important, but we are modern people.
 It's not in line with science, with the changing world. We have a digital world. We're going to have some post-modern and whatever.
 It's not modern. It's outdated. It's only some retrograds. They may think about those traditional and they will pour it on.
 They want to have all kinds of things when they don't wear like, you know, like, I don't know, hormones or something else.
 Not hormones, sorry, these other sects that there are many of those which have very traditional else.
 They separate themselves from society and they live in some, well, actually they are more modern than you think.
 But today the topic is not them. The topic is that Jesus Christ will not be outdated.
 His words are spoken to everyone everywhere in any society. He's not going to be outdated.
 The society can get away from Christ, yes, but, and already has gone away, far away.
 But this doesn't mean that we cannot find him or we cannot hear. We're speaking different languages and, you know, things like this.
 So to any person, any time, anywhere, any nation, any age even, he is speaking, he is bringing his message.
 And we should not be mistaking him for some official, I don't know, official things coming from the church.
 Because very often the church leaders, they themselves embrace some kind of narrative from news, from politics.
 And this is what we see now. And this is called worldliness.
 When they are into some agenda, of course, they would have their own corporate interests.
 But still they would be in this game, in this game which has different narratives going on.
 And some of these narratives they believe in.
 We need to learn how to become completely autonomous of any narrative.
 Only the narrative of Jesus Christ. And how do we find it out?
 If even church leaders cannot find it, how do we find it?
 Well, first of all, let's think a little bit about the narrative. What is it?
 Narrative is different from ideology because it's not so fixed.
 As ideology is fixed. We need to build communism. Finish.
 Narrative is much more flexible and it's adjusting to reality.
 It still has its own worldview, all values, but it's adjusting to what's happening. It's very flexible.
 Of course, also narrative, this thing is not a new thing. In the past we see all the wars.
 They were fought because of some narrative. Why British have to go war against Spanish, for example, at that time?
 Well, the regular army, the regular folk, they did not understand some geopolitical reasoning behind.
 So there had to be some narrative that pushed why those Spaniards are bad.
 They're Catholic, they're torturing people, they are so cruel, they're so ugly.
 So some kind of picture was created. That's also narrative.
 In the old times, in the ancient times, we have a narrator, we have Nero, the emperor, who was first called Antichrist.
 He was the first emperor to be called Antichrist.
 And until now, we say that the spirit of Nero is still alive, still around, and it's actually a spirit of Antichrist, because he was so cruel and so greedy for power and so pervert, but also very smart.
 So he accused the Christians, remember, when he set everything to fire, the Rome, he said it's Christians.
 There was also a narrative that he had, because you see, all the problems are because of them.
 They have some secret meetings there, they are different than you are and things, and it was very easy to believe.
 It partly was true, that they had their own faith, and they did not worship those idols and other things.
 So it was partly true, and he is using that, creating a narrative, and everybody believes, and everybody is going to kill Christians.
 And the similar things with Bolsheviks, they had their narrative, here it is, those classes, they exploit you, including those priests who are cheating you, who are fat, who are rich, and you are, so just let's go and kill all of them.
 So it worked. So these narratives, when they are created by someone, not by Jesus Christ, they would lead everyone, they would manipulate people, and they would lead them to their destruction.
 And also even psychologically speaking, the modern narratives, modern narratives are much more influential because of all the gadgets that we have, because of all the technology that is out there.
 And people are all in this virtual reality, in their gadgets every day. They think that they are so autonomous, so free, but they are not, we are not.
 We need to limit how much we are influenced by things we hear or perceive through this medium, not to be like 24 hours in there.
 We can judge from psychological, we call it a border, now almost everybody is on the border of losing control, either become easily irritated, or stressed, or depression, or sociopathia, they don't want to talk to anybody.
 All kinds of phenomena is going on. And if we have that, that's also because of those big narratives, they are trying to get you scared because of the future, about this sickness that's out there, this fancy sickness, and many other things.
 So we need to really have a very strong immune system. We need a spiritual vaccination against all these things.
 So let us think more. What else? Now people, they really don't like to think. This is the information from the news, this is the worldview, and it's easy for me to live like that.
 Because I don't take any responsibility, I have everybody else, or half of the people will agree with my ideas because that's the whole thing which we read, everybody reads the same thing.
 And this can lead us to Orwellian reality. You know Orwell 1984 and other books. So we don't want to get there, we don't want to get there, especially us Christians, because for us that means that we don't go to salvation.
 For us there is only one pastor, and we need to hear his voice and follow what he says, and not to go like a zombie to something else, to some other reality.
 And thinking that we are not zombies, thinking that people who are proud, they never think that they are proud, or that they are vainglorious or whatever. In the same way we think that we are free and we have our own mind, but very often they are using that to manipulate.
 Even in the news, we can see that in the past when we read some newspaper it's all about some news that's happening, at all, 50 years ago. Some real news that's happening.
 But now, when we read news, it's like a massage. It's like some opinions, some little development, something here, something there. It's like with the children. It's not giving you something solid.
 It's giving you something shapey. They call themselves shapers. They shape this world in the way they want. And through influencers, they call these people influencers.
 There are some speakers out there in YouTube. You think that he's just free? No, this is all bought by someone. And he's talking, he's got his basic, and he's using facts, but those facts are chosen in such a way to manipulate your opinion.
 So, let us be mindful of that and see that through, right away. When we see that, we can see, oh, this is a fact and this is manipulation.
 So, the problem is, what is the narrative of the Lord? We know that if someone cannot understand his own narrative, he will lose.
 He will be overcome by another narrative. When there is a country which doesn't, for example, people don't believe anymore in socialism. It's overtaken. It's over.
 So, if we don't want the Church to lose its influence in the world, the Church of Christ, I'm not talking about some institutes, the Church of Christ, the message of Jesus, so that it's powerful and it's really influencing human minds and any generation.
 We need to know what's the narrative. And there is a narrative about our own life. Every one of us has our own narrative, my life, which we need to build according to the Lord's will.
 There is a bigger narrative. For us, a bigger narrative is not about countries or even big world issues. For us, the bigger narrative is the narrative of the Church of Christ.
 Because he is saving this world through the Church. He is present in this world, in the Church. And in the Church we gain salvation, we gain true life.
 So for us, this is more important. And this is why the issues or some ideologies that are threatening the Church, some heresies, some modern heresies, ecumenism or some schisms or nationalistic influence or whatever, worldliness.
 These threats that are threatening the Church, this is the biggest issue for us.
 And everything else, only in this context. What happens with Russia, with whatever, with the war, with sickness, etc.
 This all for us is just a part of the picture, which is not as important as the existence and development of the Church in its mission.
 So, where do we draw this narrative from? How do we understand? Of course, this is a really big question. We won't be able to talk about everything today.
 But just to indicate that the Gospel is the source for us of all the basic worldview, values, morals, ways of treating others.
 About how our own attitude towards life should be. Blessed are the pure in spirit.
 If there is some agenda we see in the politics, what is it coming from? Is it coming from proudness, from selfishness, from whatever?
 If we have some spiritual understanding of the Gospel, we can look at it through the prism of the Gospel.
 And of course, to be able to do that, everybody reads the Gospel, but it has a different opinion.
 If we read Gospel every day, we live in the Gospel, we also need to put a lot of effort into prayer, into spiritual life, into fasting.
 And only then we can really have a clarity of mind and be able to really have the right judgment about some spiritual things.
 And with Eucharist, living in Eucharist with the Church in unity.
 And this will help us with our own narratives, our personal narratives, as well as to see the overall narrative that is going on.
 So let us think about this, about the whole Church mission and life and direction. The important source for us is the Acts of the Apostles.
 We see this as a help to us. We have the Gospel itself, but to help us understand on a bigger scale of the whole Church, where it's going to, what its mission, what the Apostles, what were their tasks, what was it all about.
 And until now, we can see there, what were their goals, where they went, and through, of course, the epistles of the Apostles, we can learn even more.
 Even some slight different traditions in spiritual life, in ways of doing missions between, say, Peter, Saint Paul, Saint Jacob, Saint John the Theobolgian Evangelist.
 We can draw a lot of spiritual wisdom and the narrative of Christ through which he's leading the Church and the whole world to the end of these days, the end of these times, will be more, will be opening to us more and more.
 And we won't be influenced so much by all those other narratives that they're out there and they're creating this spiritual noise trying to put us into some kind of, okay, you're pro-Trump or you're pro-whatever, you're pacifist or you're ecologist or you're whatever, trying to drag you in some kind of direction.
 For us, no, we need to be free, we need to be in constant communication with Jesus Christ himself.
 May the Lord give us such wisdom, such union, give us a clear direction, vision of his will and of the ways through which he is guiding us and leading the whole Church and the whole world to the goals that he has set.
 May the Lord give us his blessing and joy.
 Christ is risen, indeed he is risen.
