 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is the reason.
 The world is going through this turmoil for at least the last two years and it's getting worse and worse.
 Maybe we don't know what to expect.
 And during this time, many of us, we think about our future, the future of our family, of our children.
 How to decide which path to take, some fundamental decisions.
 Should I change my work? Should I go to another country?
 Some people consider marriage.
 Many of us, we are in some kind of internal questioning about our life, path of our life.
 Should I change my way of life because I became Christian?
 There are many questions that arise.
 And for our children also, what do we teach them?
 What to do? How to build their life?
 If we don't know ourselves, how can we teach them something or just let them grow up, decide?
 Well, if we are in the Lord, with the Lord, or trying to be with Him, we need to think about these things.
 We need to think about these things.
 And it's natural for people to plan, to make some project.
 And otherwise, our life resources, our energy, it's wasted because we don't have a direction.
 So, there are things that we need to think very deeply about if we want to follow Christ.
 If we want to make our life count in the eyes of the Lord.
 The first thing to do, there are several steps that we need to make before we can make some right decisions and choices.
 The first thing, of course, is to depart from this flat life with a head which is always down to earth.
 And only thinking, okay, I should buy this, I should go to vacation here, I should do this, without looking towards the Lord.
 And ask Him, "Why do I live? What's the purpose and direction of my life?"
 No, we just chase away that question and we just focus, yes, we believe, yes, we sometimes go to church, but it becomes a different reality.
 For us, whatever is related to faith is one thing, and whatever is related to my daily life is another thing.
 This is a big mistake.
 This leads to us running in that cycle and always having some spiritual problems.
 Because we don't have the right direction in our life, in our spiritual life, and everything falls apart.
 If we still don't reject God, He will always make our plans fail.
 It's going to fail. And so many people now have depression, have big problems, because they've made some plans.
 But those plans didn't work, especially now during these sickness times.
 Many businesses went bankrupt, many people lost their jobs, and so much depression and stress and broken lives.
 And because people were thinking they had a picture of their future, but now it's all destroyed.
 So the first thing we need to do is to break away from this mindset.
 And that means reject mammon.
 Because usually why we have that flat life is because we serve mammon.
 What is mammon? It's pursuit of happiness.
 I just want to have a happy and peaceful and joyful life here in this world, and this is my goal.
 And we see it differently. Some people think, "Okay, I just have enough income, I can purchase things for me, for my family, go to vacation."
 That's the way I live, that brings me happiness, and that's the world I want. That kind of thing.
 Some people want to reach some bigger goals. For them that big goal, build up some capital or purchase a lot of real estate, then he's happy.
 Then this brings him joy and fortune, whatever.
 Some people want to have a big blog, and having millions of subscribers brings him his vainglory. It's satisfying.
 Different things, but this is mammon.
 This is some happiness, some enjoyment that's related to this world.
 And this becomes the goal for people, that they spend their whole effort, their whole energy towards reaching this goal.
 And let us read Luke 16.25.
 This is the parable that the Lord said about Lazarus and the rich man.
 We remember that parable. If you don't take a look, Luke 16, where this rich man, he was celebrating in his life every day, but then he went to hell.
 But Lazarus, who used to be a beggar with all kinds of wounds and sores, he didn't have anything, he was hungry all the time.
 But eventually he went to the bosom of Abraham after he died.
 And then there is this dialogue.
 So this rich man, he's asking Abraham to send Lazarus to take some water put on his mouth, on his tongue, so that he's not tortured so much.
 He has a little relief from that torture.
 And Abraham is answering and saying, but Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receiveth thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things, but now he is comforted and thou art tormented.
 Isn't this good things? We want to receive good things in this life.
 Nice, peaceful vacation, good income stable, and then the pension plans that will provide me a happy life every day, full fridge of good stuff, and things like that.
 Nice family, everybody loves me and everybody surrounds me.
 This is what we want. It's very simple things.
 But that brings us to enjoy a joyful and happy life every day. This is our dream.
 Call it whatever. Any person could have such a dream.
 People see it differently, but this is the dream everybody, most of us, we have.
 But we see how it ends.
 It ends that the life is over and tortured.
 You receive your good things already. What else do you want?
 Now you will be tortured because you made so many wrong decisions against the gospel, against God.
 Yes, his mercy on daily basis. You didn't even notice that you spoiled everything that was given by the Lord to you.
 You've spoiled it, you've ruined it, you've used it for this things that perish, that you're not animal to live in order to eat.
 You need to live for some higher values.
 So this first thing that we need to deal with is this mammon mindset. I live for mammon.
 And the Lord said you cannot serve both God and mammon.
 So this first is on this level of values that we have, the goals of our life or ambitions of our life.
 We need to throw away this mammon thing, this basic mammon.
 Let's say we've decided and we've thrown away this mammon, we hate it, we want to live for Christ every day.
 Let's assume we've made this decision.
 The rule is going to be a big struggle because everybody around you is going to be against it, but your relatives, everyone.
 But let's say you've made this decision. What else?
 You're going to face a big struggle with passions.
 All kinds of passions because from childhood we're used to enjoying our carnal enjoyments.
 We have vainglory, we have selfishness, we have many, many snakes in our heart.
 And when you are trying to step on this narrow path to follow Christ, to reach the kingdom of heaven, there will be a tremendous struggle for your soul.
 The demons will be involved, your corrupted heart that is used to this and is loving those things is going to torture you.
 Because they're going to be pulling you back to that wide path that leads to destruction.
 That's going to be a big, big difficult struggle.
 Every time we fast, the more effort we put into this spiritual life, the more we will experience how many still snakes, how ugly we are inside.
 And it will be not easy to overcome that just to throw away some basic bad habits, sinful habits.
 That's going to be difficult enough and it's going to take a lot of struggle.
 OK, let's say we've now conquered this and now there is no big evil habit that we have.
 So both value-wise and this passion, this heart-wise, we overcame the thing, we got rid of that.
 We're more or less stable on our path to Christ, to serve in Christ.
 What other challenges we will have? We will have other challenges.
 Let's say before that we were inside hell life.
 Now we jumped out. We jumped out of that life.
 We jumped out of that life and we're like in the desert, like Israel, without guidance, without direction.
 We don't know where to go. Our job does not bring us so much satisfaction.
 Maybe we should continue, maybe not.
 And there are tons of questions and there are two big problems that are awaiting us here.
 One of them is lack of spiritual guidance.
 We may try to be looking because the Lord said, "Take up your cross and follow me."
 But how? Where to follow the Lord? What should I do every day?
 What should my work be? Should I do mission and go to the end of the world?
 Or should I stay here and do my daily care about my family, about the job?
 What should I do? How do I follow you?
 And decisions like that, they would need some kind of spiritual guidance.
 That we can be guided in our prayer, in our fasting, in our dialogue with the Lord.
 And we are lacking this in the church.
 Very often the priest himself, he has not still overcome those two things that I've mentioned.
 How would he guide you to something else?
 So this is a big, big problem indeed.
 And another problem that we are facing, and my channel is one of the reasons for having this channel.
 I hope that it might have a little help to people in that respect.
 Of course it's not enough, absolutely.
 But just some little hints that I want to share with everyone.
 And another problem that we might have is that after jumping out of this hell life,
 let's call it that way, we are already on this narrow path.
 But being on this narrow path, we find some very comfortable zone, like a house.
 And we just live in that circle, in that house.
 For example, we find some form of ministry, we do this, this, this.
 We have some minimal help, deeds of mercy, some prayer room.
 And we are in that comfort zone.
 And we find this is like a cocoon.
 And we live in that little cocoon.
 This is not too bad.
 I mean, this can lead people to salvation.
 Just staying in that, just not slipping away to something else.
 But staying in that can lead us to salvation.
 But this also can...
 There is more that we could do.
 We could dare for extra, to accept extra responsibilities.
 To come closer to God, to go through bigger challenges.
 And there, in that way, reach crowns from the Lord.
 To become really good example also to others to follow Christ.
 There can be more that can be done.
 So, this is another challenge that we will have.
 Having said all of this, we also have the fundamental question.
 Okay, we go back to where we began.
 So, what do I do in my life?
 Should I work in this company or in that company?
 Should I move to another country?
 Big decisions.
 The one thing is that, okay, let's look at the lives of saints.
 To find answers.
 How they became saints.
 What was their life arrangement, so to say.
 And we will have one discovery.
 After looking at different types of saints.
 We have different types of saints.
 Let's first take a look at the martyrs.
 We have ancient martyrs, we have modern martyrs.
 Soviet countries and elsewhere.
 And both ancient or modern, there are two types of martyrs.
 One type is when it is a young person, very young, maybe 20, maybe 30 years old.
 Who came to faith, maybe just recently or not that long ago.
 That became really faithful.
 And soon after that he was martyred.
 And another type is that the person lived all his life serving Christ.
 And in some mature age or old age he became a martyr.
 We have many people like Saint Polycarp of Smyrna.
 Or maybe many priests in Soviet Russia.
 Bishops who were killed when they were already quite mature.
 Or even old, old people.
 Okay, so there are these two types.
 And this is a great gift from the Lord if he gives someone this crown.
 But to get it you need all that life in Christ before that.
 If you don't have that life in Christ, you will not get such a crown.
 So we need to find that life of Christ.
 But we see that they didn't really have the young ones, they didn't have time for some career.
 The older ones, they also were not focused on career.
 They had some kind of ministry.
 Another type is, because not all of us will be martyrs.
 Another type is the righteous.
 The righteous people.
 These are also very special people who, usually it's monks or monastics who just abandoned everything.
 Just everything.
 And they went to the desert or the monastery and they spent all their life in prayer.
 We hope that we have such people now.
 But practically speaking, most of the people who go to church are not like that.
 All missionaries, they also abandoned everything and go to the end of the world and they just do the mission there.
 There are different types of saints, but in any situation that we see,
 it's never a happy, completed career that he goes, goes, he builds a company and he is a big, I don't know,
 some successful businessman and then at the end of life.
 And that's the main achievement of his life, is his company.
 Or something else, or some scientist for whom the main thing is the science, development and things like that.
 And we can see that for the saints, it was never the goal.
 Some earthly, big earthly achievement was never the goal of his life.
 It could be some path while pursuing which he became a saint.
 But it was not like a long term goal that he had to reach and it was very successful and it's like a success story.
 But at the same time, he also became a saint.
 All of them, they lived, the key, the answer to our question is that all of them, they lived for today.
 They lived to serve the Lord today in the best way they can.
 So the only question for them was not, OK, what is my long term life goals?
 I become, I don't know, some go to space or become some famous or become a great blogger or something.
 They never had any goal like that.
 The only issue they would have about their daily life, what they do on a daily basis,
 was that they need to have this life that is focused on serving God in some way.
 Be it job, be it caring for others, be it scientific research, whatever it is.
 But they do it for the Lord on a daily basis and they're ready to die every day, anytime.
 And the answer why this is the basic and the correct perspective for a Christian person is that
 we remember from the ancient times of the church, the goal of a Christian was to reach the coming, second coming of Christ.
 Christians always live not looking at this world, but looking at the Lord and expecting and craving for this eschatological union with Christ.
 So whatever happens in this world is transitory. Basically, put it this way, need to hang around till the time of my meeting with the Lord.
 We need to go through, suffer through this remaining time of my life in some meaningful way that's blessed by the Lord.
 It's not something that I really want to have some great big earthly development during this time.
 Have some great brilliant career or something else or some other earthly goal.
 No, it was always the goal was there in the eternal world.
 OK. And this is what we should have in our life that will make our soul alive, our spiritual life successful.
 Because now we have this situation that, OK, majority of people who are baptized, they don't go to church.
 That means that they don't, they have not discovered yet what is spiritual life and church life, liturgical life.
 Another type is those who go to the church, but they are not yet renewed.
 They did not have yet experienced all this renewal from the Lord.
 Then we have those who are renewed by the Lord, but they are not yet, but they are depressed and or they don't have good guidance in their life.
 They have this renewal, but they're not sure what to do, how to reach Christ as all their faith becomes dim and weaker and weaker.
 And their love towards the Lord is getting depressed.
 And we also have people who've discovered this fire and they are motivated and are moved by the Holy Spirit to do the work of the Lord on a daily basis.
 And we, so we see there is fewer, fewer, fewer to reach that kind of people.
 And there is also the wrong fire that it could be.
 People who have this great zeal, but this zeal is based on vainglory, based on wrong understanding of the Holy Fathers or something else.
 So they're very excited and they're ready to do something crazy for God.
 But they do the wrong thing.
 They have zeal without mind.
 So they do crazy things.
 So we have this lot of different difficulties now in the pastoral life, in the guidance of the people and all kinds of challenges that we're facing.
 So let us think about all these things. Let us have the right mindset, the right direction in our life, the right paradigm of our life, what it is, where are we going to, how to arrange it.
 Because now we need to be ready, if it's many years, we need to be ready to go through all these remaining years in the right way, in the right direction, sound, spiritually strong.
 May the Lord give us this vision, give us the zeal, make us love Him from our whole heart and receive the joy in this suffering, not be afraid of suffering.
 We see like Lazarus, if I need to suffer every day, that means that later with the Lord I will receive greater reward.
 I don't run away from this suffering.
 This is a very important idea that we need to have, mindset.
 Our heart should be ready for all kinds of suffering and tortures, if needed.
 We don't look for them on purpose, but if needed we need to be ready to go through it and not just always dreaming of some nice little peaceful thing and house somewhere with enough income and things like that.
 No, we don't want to be that rich man of the gospel, of Luke.
 May the Lord help us, give us guidance, give us direction, let us separate from everything that attracts us in this world and be attracted only to our Lord Jesus Christ.
 I mean, Christ is risen, indeed He is risen.
 Amen.
