 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen!
 We are coming to the end of the Pascal season, next Thursday we will celebrate the ascension of the Lord,
 and after that I will not be wearing the red clothes.
 So, these are our final days that we are in this joyful celebration of the Living Christ being with us.
 And while we approach this end of this time, we also think more and more about what's going on in this world.
 And what is happening now is bringing many people to despair, to fears.
 And the way that we react to these fears, or dangers, also shows how Christian we are.
 Because very often we receive the faith, but our heart, our mindset is still what it used to be before that.
 So, we need to clean, it's like a house, and you need to clean every corner.
 So, now people are talking about hunger that is going to come upon the earth.
 This is the third horseman of the apocalypse, who is coming, the first is the plague, then the war,
 and the third one is hunger, and then the fourth is death.
 So, they are talking about having some problems with food supplies,
 and that is going to become really bad by October-November this year.
 And many people are afraid of this.
 One thing is to talk about whether it's possible, how big the danger is, this is one topic.
 Another topic is how do we respond to this, how do we get ourselves ready for that kind of thing.
 Well, first of all, if it's possible, I have myself experienced three types of major shortage of food.
 And shortage of food is not hunger, we can call it hunger.
 So, the first one was in the Soviet times, I remember in the 80s, when you had almost nothing to buy,
 you could walk into the store supermarket of that time, and you see only dried bread.
 With bread that is already dried, you cannot cut it, but if you can buy that, you are happy.
 And there is nothing else, there is no meat, there is no dairy, there is almost nothing there.
 And to buy meat, to buy sausages, you need to go, maybe take a train three hours to go to Moscow,
 and you buy it in Moscow, maybe some of it, and you come back, you are happy.
 So, those times, but you see, something like that would not happen in developed countries now.
 It might happen with some former socialist or soviet countries, like former USSR,
 or some dictatorship countries, like China, maybe, in places like that, something like this could happen again.
 I don't see it happening in developed capitalist countries, so there is not much risk.
 And of course, in those former soviet block countries, it will also be different, of course,
 because at that time everybody had money, at least everybody was equal, and had about the same opportunities.
 But now it would be quite different, some people might have no money, no job, nothing to buy,
 and they are going to be screwed.
 So, something like that could happen now. And also, at that time there were cards.
 For exchange, you could exchange, you would get a few cards, and you get rice or sugar with those cards.
 And also they control people, and at some point, like in the 20s, 30s, maybe, in the Soviet Union,
 they even limited some people, not giving them out those cards.
 So, if you belong to some class, for example, your aristocracy, or your clergy,
 you would not get those cards. Meaning, just die. You are supposed to die, you are not supposed to get food.
 So, that was the logic, and now this also can be done to place greater control.
 At that time we didn't have these electronic means of checking whether it's your card or it's someone else's card.
 Now it could be electronically traced if you are getting what you are supposed to get.
 And if somebody is giving you somewhere secretly, this also can be traced and you will be punished.
 So, now if something like that happens, we will have bigger problems than in the past.
 And maybe now less people would be so compassionate to share their last things with someone else who doesn't have anything.
 At that time it was different. So, all of those things are quite possible.
 Now, coming back to reality. The other two types that I saw, it was in the Philippines,
 where some children, some refugees, moving from one region to another because of some tsunami,
 or some hurricane, some wars, conflicts, something like that, they move and then they don't have a good job,
 they don't have their own crops, they have children who don't eat enough.
 For adults it's not that big of a problem, but for children, if every day you don't eat enough food,
 you get sick and you die earlier. So, things like that are possible in the third world countries,
 maybe in Africa, in Southeast Asia. That might happen this year, next year.
 And also another situation in East Timor, where we had the shortage of food, our mission.
 Our Orthodox people there, they were experiencing this with the beginning of the epidemics two years ago,
 where people could not travel, they could not go to somewhere else to buy rice,
 they could not work, they could not do their own crops, they did not have money,
 and whatever they could buy went expensive, much more expensive than it used to be.
 So, they've experienced tough times. So, something like that I have some experience with,
 and it could be worse now. But these are third world countries.
 If you don't live in such a country, you would not need to be worried about you personally experiencing something like that.
 Because the solutions that people have now, some say "Now I buy stuff" and some people have for six months.
 I have some reserve, I have a lot of cans, whatever can be preserved for that period of time.
 Grain, barley, stuff like that. And I think that this is the way to solve this situation.
 And other people, they think "I need to go and live on a farm, and there I have my own crops,
 and I can avoid all these problems, and also I can avoid this negative anti-Christian control and influence
 that is getting worse in this world, in this urban environment.
 Well, both of these mindsets, these solutions, they need to be addressed.
 I think the first solution is not the Christian way of facing the problem.
 Because if you are a Christian, when it gets that bad, everybody around you is hungry, and there is nothing to buy.
 People are dying, children get sick without enough food, stuff like that.
 It is not that you sit at home and you are surrounded by all those sacks of products,
 and you eat there secretly, and you are happy. It is not a Christian way of living.
 We ask the Lord every day, "Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors."
 We believe that he will give. That is selfish, and this is a lack of faith in God.
 This is something that we need to avoid. This is not Christian.
 We have that mindset, but it is not Christian. If we are Christian, it is not that we don't care.
 We do care, but we care about thinking of what we can do in case things like that happen so that we can help more people.
 For example, if it is getting like that, we can search for some farmers who maybe are able to sell stuff directly,
 without these supermarket chains and stuff like that. You directly go there and buy corn or stuff like that,
 and you distribute it to others who need it. There is a team of people who are doing that, organizing something like that.
 Instead of sitting at home and just eating your stuff that you have accumulated there for the rainy day.
 That is not a Christian way of facing the problem.
 This is something we could think of if the problem is getting worse.
 Because if that happens, we think about ourselves the last, not the first.
 I am fine, I have stuff, so we need to change that mindset.
 I know that many people have that kind of mindset. I myself had it in the past.
 So, this is one thing. Another thing is about going somewhere, to a village, to a country, a farm.
 Well, this is another big topic and I don't want to rush through it.
 But just to say one thing. There are two types of motivations for that.
 The motivation could be to escape, to run away from this dangerous, filthy world and to have safe heavens there.
 Because you want to be safe, because you want to have your own food supply and you don't want others to control you through some electronic devices and stuff.
 But that's not the right motivation. If you just have that motivation, it's going to fail.
 Because you'll discover that it's much more tough to live there.
 It's not what you thought it would be. You need to limit your everything.
 What you eat, what you do. You don't have your entertainment, you don't have your supplies, you don't have many things that now people cannot live without.
 So, this is one thing. And another thing is your passions will be with you.
 So, if you are lusty, it's not going to go, it's not going to disappear.
 If you are angry, it's also going to go with you. All your anger, your depression, your stress.
 Whatever we have, it's not going to disappear just by us being somewhere. It's going to get worse actually.
 So, it's not a solution for that kind of motivation.
 But the right motivation, which is now you don't find it. There are very few people who have that kind of motivation.
 It's that they love Christ so much that they want to dedicate all their life, all their time to prayer, to fasting.
 In some setting like that, in the wilderness, in the rural side, they work hard every day.
 This is for Christ, with Christ. They are craving for him.
 Not because they want to escape, they want to live, but because they want to be with Christ all the time.
 But this is very few, so I don't think many of us have that kind of motivation and that's why we are considering something like that.
 So, this is it.
 The final thing that I want to say is that whether this hunger is a good thing or it's a bad thing, if it comes, if this third course man comes.
 Well, I think for Christians it may be good, actually.
 For Christians it may be good that we can learn to live on a less budget or we buy less.
 We don't care only about tasty food and this and that and recipes and where do we go to eat today, tomorrow.
 We become less concerned about food, about variety of food and we live a simpler life and learn to fast, learn to enjoy life without being so much obsessed about food.
 But, of course, if it's not hunger, hunger, if it's just higher prices, I mean the developed economies, what they might do, they might just have higher prices and less variety.
 But not just empty shelves every day and nothing to buy and nothing to eat at all.
 So, those shortages might be good, spiritually.
 For general society, which is not Christian, no matter which country, now it's not Christian.
 But for the general society, what that could mean is that could mean a stricter control and some education given to this society to fit in this new world order.
 That they begin to live without meat and eating some insects, bugs and stuff made of that. That they become more controllable, traceable.
 This can be done through social rating that can be introduced together with that and maybe some basic income may be introduced and all of that is going to make them more like the animals who know their place, who are completely controlled by the big brother.
 So, that kind of society is quite possible.
 So, in that sense, it's not good, of course, because it's going to be used for that purpose.
 So, let us bring in fear so that everybody is afraid of their lives and bringing this new government, new system in place.
 So, this is something that might happen.
 So, let us be spiritually strong, be with Christ. If we are with him, if we're not selfish, if we are brave and we are caring for others, the Lord will provide whatever we need.
 The Lord will help us to win in any situation, no matter how hard it is. He will help us to survive through any challenge and give us his guidance and enlighten us how we can help others.
 May the Lord give us this joy, give us his strength, strengthen our faith and give us the joy of his resurrection. I mean, Christ is risen, indeed he is risen. I mean.
