 Dear brothers and sisters, today we celebrate the ascension of the Lord when the Lord after
 forty days of coming to his disciples, the resurrected Christ, he rose to the heavens
 and he promised them that he will send the Holy Spirit that will bring to them the promise
 of the Father, the blessing of the Covenant, this chosenness, and they will be baptized
 with the Holy Spirit and receive the power from on high so that they can be witnesses
 of his passions and resurrection to the whole world.
 So we receive today this mission, we are commissioned by the ascended Christ to go to the ends of
 the world beginning from Jerusalem to every nation and bring this testimony.
 Very often we don't feel this commission, we don't feel this mission, we are lazy
 apostles, we are sent but we don't want to go.
 Well one reason for that is that when we discover ourselves in this mission we are lazy, we
 are in shackles of our own lifestyle, of our own selfishness, of our own ideas, and we
 don't move, we are handicapped, we don't even understand this commission.
 This happens because there is this power called evil that is out there and as soon as you
 try to go to follow Christ on this path, to do this mission, you will discover great obstacles.
 Today I want to say about these obstacles, because the main fight that is going on is
 the spiritual fight, and if we don't fight nothing is going to happen.
 And this spiritual fight has its material physical component to it, because from the
 ascension we learn that there is no real separation of spiritual and physical, because the physical
 Lord with wounds, with the body, he goes up to heaven.
 So right now there is no separation between the two.
 And he says that I will be with you till the end of the days, till my second company.
 Of course, all these things are mind-blowing and difficult to understand, but one thing
 that we can understand is that there is no real separation of the two worlds.
 So what we do now here in this physical material world may have spiritual value, spiritual
 significance, and in the same way this evil power is also using this material world to
 achieve some spiritual goals.
 So what is this power?
 Who is behind this power?
 The main person, you can say, who is behind it is the devil.
 And we don't know what is the devil, where is the devil, who is the devil?
 Usually when we think about evil, we think of evil people.
 Those people who wage wars, who do holocaust, who kill, who murder, who steal, deceive people,
 all of that is evil for us.
 But this evil, we really need to have a sense of it.
 We can talk about spiritual side, we can also talk about spiritual sense.
 First of all, beginning from ourselves, we need to see evil in ourselves, we need to
 see antichrist in ourselves.
 And then we can see it in other places.
 And there is this tendency of people to either say that everything is evil, antichrist everywhere,
 and paranoia, all that stuff.
 Or on the other hand, no, there is no evil what we are talking about, it's just us, it's
 just people, just ideas, and we just don't need to worry.
 You need to read the Bible, you need to read how to love people.
 Don't think about evil, about devil, about end of the world, just don't think about it.
 So this is like a lollipop, just spiritually sleep, stay, stay, stay asleep, don't be on
 guard, don't watch out for any threats.
 But as soon as we really want to do a mission, we really want to do something for Christ,
 we see this power.
 And something can be told about it, can be known about this evil force that is out there.
 From the book of Job, we read in chapter 40 and 41, we read about Leviathan.
 And Leviathan is not crocodile, some people think, it is talking in this metaphorical
 way about devil himself.
 So let's read just a few verses, I recommend you read chapter 41, but let's see, we begin
 from verse 9 and I will be just selecting different verses, otherwise it's gonna be
 too long.
 "Shall not one be cast down, even at the sight of him?"
 He is so mighty, so powerful, "none is so fierce that dares stir him up.
 I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his commonly proportion.
 Who can discover the face of his garment?
 Or who can come to him with his double bridle?
 Who can open the doors of his face?
 His teeth are terrible round about, his scales are his pride, shut up together as with a
 closed seal.
 One is so near to another that no air can come between them.
 They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they cannot be sundered.
 By his next sneezings a light does shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.
 Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.
 Out of his nostrils goes smoke, as out of a seething pot or cauldron.
 His breath kindles coals, and a flame goes out of his mouth.
 His heart is as firm as a stone, yea, as hard as a piece of a nether mine millstone.
 When he raises up himself, the mighty are afraid, by reason of breakings they purify
 themselves.
 The sword of him that lays at him cannot hold, the spear the dart nor the habergegon.
 He a steve's iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood, the arrow cannot make him flee.
 It is describing how fearful, how awesome is this beast.
 And at the end he concludes, he beholdest all high things, he is a king over all the
 children of pride.
 So he is the king of all those kings and queens and all those who are pride, all those great
 masters of this world who are driven by pride and vainglory and greed and will for power.
 So this is talking about the devil.
 Of course we need not to promote the idea that devil rules the world.
 By no means he doesn't.
 He is trying to pretend that he has some great power.
 He tries to pretend that he is god.
 But he is not.
 He is just mimicking, he is trying to pretend he is god.
 But it is quite fake.
 Just like that you can chase him out.
 By calling the name of the lord, by repenting and attaching yourself to the truth, you can
 cast him out of anywhere.
 So only spiritual weapons can win over this enemy.
 We can see that nothing, no armor, no monetary instruments, nothing can really damage him.
 It is only the spiritual force that can overthrow him.
 So this is the highest level of power of fight, spiritual fight.
 Because very often we think, who is ruling the world?
 We need to have at least some understanding.
 We see that it is not what we read in the newspapers.
 All China, America, Russia, they are trying.
 This is a very simplistic understanding.
 When we, and the conspiracy, usually the conspiracy theory would say, no there are people behind
 it and those people are really the people who rule the world.
 Well, this is only partly true.
 There are really some people behind the scenes who have much more power than all the presidents.
 However, it is more complicated than that.
 Because there are not just people, there are also processes.
 There is some objective reality that is running.
 What Marx described as basics, material conditions.
 We have different countries, we have different nations, we have economic relationships, technologies
 and stuff like that.
 It has its own logic, it has its own ways of developing.
 So this is also some part of reality that is out there.
 And it is not directly controlled.
 It can be shaped and guided into some direction by those people who have power.
 But it cannot have, it is not just some tool that they use in any way they can.
 So once some process has begun, for example some war begins somewhere, or Hitler gains
 power maybe with their help, then it is running, it has its own logic of development and it
 cannot be completely predicted how it is going to go.
 And there is also this information sphere that also is trying, we call it, some people
 call it digital Leviathan, that is controlling people's mind and heart, their values through
 gadgets, through social networks, through media, through stuff like that.
 When I now talk with some people in other countries, be it in Europe, in Russia, in
 the United States, I see that many people are just guided in their thinking.
 They think that they are free and that is their own ideas, but no, those ideas were
 designed by some people and they were implanted into the mind of the population.
 So he has got a lot of ways of controlling people's feelings, emotions, what they do,
 what they want to do, what they are dreaming about, and for example many people they don't
 know much about their own country, but they know that some country is bad, that Iran is
 bad, everything about Iran is bad, but they don't know anything about their own country.
 So we can see that it is just something that goes and it is just implanted into the hands
 of people who is good, who is bad, what is going on.
 They have a worldview that is given to them.
 This is quite big, it is not just individuals.
 There are institutes which are working for the purpose of creating some opinions, some
 behavior, some mass behavior, so they've got a lot of tools.
 But above all of that is this fight between this Leviathan who is like Satan, he is contender,
 he is antagonist of God, and this is real, this is not a game.
 He is called deceiver, thief, supplier of all sorrows, of all the weeping that there
 is in this world, he is betrayer, he betrays nations, he betrays everything that he promises,
 he is a busy guy, he has got a lot of things he needs to do, and now we are facing this
 reality who's got experience of many thousands of years deceiving people, and who's never
 sleeping, who is always on guard.
 And despite all of that we still have, with Christ, we still have our freedom and we still
 can chase him away, just relying upon Christ.
 So he is trying to deceive all those people, and he is of course flattering, he is telling
 them you are so good, you are so brilliant, you have your own creativity, your own power.
 Many world leaders and industry leaders are driven by that, and to those who love sin
 he gives them to sin, all those perverts and many degenerated people who have all kinds
 of psychological disorders or some complexes of Napoleon and something else.
 He has all those instruments, he has got different ideologies, socialism, fascism, capitalism,
 he plays them around like any time he can do it.
 He is trying to be like God, like a monkey of God, he tries to pretend that he is a dictator,
 that he has power, that he is very glorious, but we need to understand his logic, we need
 to understand that he does everything opposite to what the Lord does, opposite and from behind.
 And we need to see that this is objective reality out there, it's like material, it's
 objective there, the evil out there.
 He tries to destroy everything holy and everything good and pure, so he is building that pyramid
 of controlling the world, and we need to break that pyramid, we need to undermine that pyramid.
 And that's why it's so important to see this evil in yourselves, in ourselves, to begin
 from that.
 And then we will see that we need to move, that we are commissioned, that we are apostles
 who were sent by the Lord on that day of ascension, and we need to wage war against this evil
 thing.
 We need to do really physical something.
 Some people say "yes, we agree, but we just pray and we just... we cannot do, we are small
 people, we cannot influence anything, we can just only pray and that's all we can do".
 Well, this is just trying to hide and be irresponsible.
 We have our safe heavens, we have our little room, and we stay in that warm little room.
 We need to be brave, be proactive, know that every one of us can play a big role in this
 war, in this apocalyptic war, and go out and do things, and cast out this Leviathan.
 Let us be wise, let us pray that the Holy Spirit is with us, that we receive its guidance,
 the power, the eagerness to serve the Lord, to do everything for Him, to overthrow all
 selfishness, all limitations, and to bring the victory to Christ.
 May it be so, merry ascension of the Lord, Amen.
 God bless.
