 Dear brothers and sisters, we are now in a very special time between the ascension of the Lord, which was last Thursday, and the Pentecost, which is coming this next Sunday.
 And during these 10 days, we are expecting the coming down of the Holy Spirit. We are in a very intense expectation in this prayer of, together with the apostles, who were sent by the Lord from Jerusalem.
 After, essentially, he said, "Go back to Jerusalem and be there waiting for the Holy Spirit, which will baptize you. You will be baptized in the Holy Spirit."
 "And you will become my witnesses to the end of the world."
 So, they went and they prayed. And this is what is going on now with the Church. We live through these days.
 And during these days, we contemplate, we think deeper about the Holy Spirit. What does it mean?
 What does it mean to receive the Holy Spirit? Because very often we think that the Holy Spirit is somewhere... Where is me and where is the Holy Spirit?
 I mean, yes, there are some saints who have these hallows behind their head, who are holy in their life, in their heart. They talk with God. They do miracles.
 But what about me? I cannot do that. I'm just a mortal. I'm just a regular person.
 I mean, yes, I believe in Christ, but my life, it doesn't differ much from those who don't believe.
 I mean, I try to do better, but I am still very sinful. I'm still very limited.
 If we're honest to ourselves, we see a lot of limitations that we have.
 So, many people, they would just distance themselves from this topic. Because the Holy Spirit, yes, it's theology, it's ancient times, we have that.
 But now I am not even ascetic. I can't even fast. I mean, how can I be filled with the Holy Spirit?
 This is one misunderstanding. Today we'll see why this is wrong. We should not think like that.
 That every one of us, if we already chose to follow Christ, we're already related with the Holy Spirit. There is already this relationship.
 And also, another misunderstanding is that the Holy Spirit is like physical energy, or some force. Yes, it's spiritual, you cannot see it, but it's like filling me, and it's giving me something, some boost, or some feeling of peace, tranquility, heavens in my heart.
 This is also a little bit, it can be wrong, this kind of understanding. It can be wrong in the way of getting too physical about it.
 And having this pagan idea about spirit, that is also a material, is just we don't see it.
 In the reality, the spirit is none of that. It's another reality, another dimension. So we cannot express it in terms of physical things or feelings.
 We cannot describe it in terms of rational things. It's beyond that.
 So today I want to say how can we penetrate into that mystery, and have a little bit better understanding about the Holy Spirit, and about us being able to receive the Holy Spirit in different stages in spiritual life.
 That will bring us to some progress in that reception and union with the Holy Spirit. And what are we expecting now? Is this just some tradition that we are so, so to say, expecting something?
 Or it's some real expectation and real event that's going to happen on the Pentecost with every one of us.
 Okay, so to understand that, let's take a look. Okay, yes, on the another spectrum, okay, now I've described the spectrum that I am separate from the Holy Spirit.
 Another mistake is that people think, "Oh no, everything is Holy Spirit. I am joyful today. This is Holy Spirit. I understand how to fix my car. Oh, this is the Holy Spirit."
 Whatever, anything, okay? Anywhere, everywhere I see, "Yes, Holy Spirit, life experience, all my plants are growing. This is by the Holy Spirit."
 And many other ideas. No, the Holy Spirit is not like that also. So let's avoid both of these, okay?
 Because then we slip into paganism. It's a fun phase. God is just everything and everywhere, and God is nature, which is Spinoza, the teaching of Spinoza.
 And actually, many of these so-called occultists and people ruling the world, if you will, they are Spinozists. Some people think that, and they want everybody to become Spinozists.
 So we need to be careful about this pantheistic understanding, okay? Okay, so let's think deeper about the Holy Spirit.
 To give us some reference points, let's take a look at Isaiah 11, verse 2. From this chapter we can see that there are seven spirits, and we know that the lampstand on the altar in the church has seven lamps.
 And these seven lamps actually represent these seven spirits or seven angels coming down on seven churches in the Revelation. So this is all related.
 And these seven spirits, you can think of it as seven aspects, or seven gifts, or seven ways the Holy Spirit is expressing itself.
 We become partakers of the Holy Spirit through some of these seven, maybe one of these seven, or all of them ways, okay, so what are they?
 I will not read it as it's written, because we need to understand it in this way.
 There are seven spirits. There is the Spirit of the Lord, the Spirit of wisdom,
 the Spirit of understanding, the Spirit of counsel, the Spirit of might, the Spirit of knowledge,
 and the Spirit of the fear of God. So these seven ways of talking about the spirits,
 or seven aspects to it. We won't talk too much about each and every one, but we can see that
 the way the Holy Spirit can influence us and the way that we can become partakers of it can be
 through one of those ways. Let's say the might. When the might of the Lord, his almighty,
 comes upon someone. That he is able, we don't become almighty of course, but we are able
 through our faith to change this world. Through our prayer some people get healed.
 Through the prayer of the apostles and holy people, demons get chased away. So when we
 are talking about some powers that are manifest through saints, this is the spirit of the might.
 When we talk about knowledge, this is the deep understanding, the knowledge of God.
 It is a Vedini. Vedini is knowing, penetrating into some knowledge to be able to
 do something, make decisions, especially into those mysteries of the Lord, penetrating into
 those mysteries. Every one of those spirits is some facet of the gifts of the Holy Spirit that
 we talk about. We see in the Apostle Paul that he is describing different gifts. Somebody has a gift
 to be a teacher. Are you a teacher? You are a preacher, you are a prophet, you are responsible
 for the deeds of mercy, you are a benefactor. He is giving advice to every kind of ministry that
 there is in the church, the pastoral ministry. So these gifts of the Spirit can be manifest in
 many different ways. He also says that ask for greater gifts and I will show you a path that is
 better. So if we make this a problem that I want to have more gifts of the Holy Spirit,
 the Lord will give us these gifts and we will appreciate these gifts, but we need to have this
 craving for these gifts. We need to see that they are not something for the saints. To see that,
 we can talk about different levels of belonging to the Holy Spirit, the life of the Holy Spirit.
 The first is when we receive Christ as God, as our Savior, as the only Savior and we decide that we
 want to follow him and to be with him in the Kingdom of Heaven ultimately. So when we set
 this goal, when we make this decision, make this commitment, this is when the Holy Spirit is
 touching our heart. It is only through the Holy Spirit that this decision can be made. So this is
 why those Pharisees, last week we talked about the Gospel about the blind man which was born blind
 and he discovered that Christ is the Messiah while all those Pharisees and scribes, high priests,
 they did not believe. They were well educated, they believed in one God, they had a lot of prayers,
 a lot of rituals, a lot of things that seems to be right. Now people say "oh, all religions".
 They have the most religious, that has the most eagerness in it, in doing things and even having
 righteous life in terms of keeping the commandments, they had all of that but that did not save them.
 And this had no relation with the Holy Spirit. They were not directly related to the Holy Spirit,
 that's why they could not understand the prophets, the true meaning of the prophets. Looking into
 those books and even knowing them by memory, researching them, but that didn't help. This was
 blocked, so they were even seeing these evident miracles that the Lord performed but they still
 did not want to receive it. They didn't, they were against it. So this is because they didn't have
 this gift of the Holy Spirit which the blind man had. So it's not something small, something
 trivial. No, this is a great gift that we have and this already puts us into relationship with
 the Holy Spirit. So don't think that the Holy Spirit is far away from you. No, if you made
 this decision and you're willing to be with the Lord, you are already related to the Holy Spirit.
 But this is not enough. This is a good beginning, this is absolutely necessary, but it's not enough.
 Because we know that every one of us we're waved, we go back and forth. Today we feel like
 serving the Lord, tomorrow we are down, we're depressed, we fall victim to some sinful passion.
 We have loneliness, we have laziness, all kinds of problems. We're attached to this material world,
 we lack our faith, we have fears. All that shows us that we are still lacking a lot and we are
 risking not to be saved whenever we fall away from Christ. So the next level of our reception
 of the Holy Spirit is when we can stay in Christ continuously, when we can be with the Lord all the
 time, from morning to evening, every time, to everything you do, due to the glory of God,
 the apostles Paul says. This is the task for most of us, maybe 99% of the faithful. We're not yet on
 that level that we can be continuously with the Lord, continuously getting rid of the selfishness,
 thinking about the Lord, how to serve him, his people, to be always in that mindset,
 throwing away all conceptions, not just the problem, the will, but also our wrong values,
 wrong things that we believe. We need to throw that away, overcoming that. This is a great gift
 of the Holy Spirit, the next level. And now during this time before the Pentecost, this is what we
 are praying for, that the Lord can help us overcome this and become firmer in our faith. And of course
 there are more. There are levels which go beyond that. When we receive such a gift to be always
 in Christ, with Christ, always in humbleness, we also can ask for more things. We can ask for the
 Lord reveals to us his will in everything we do, regarding our daily decisions. Should I do this or
 that? Not waiting when the Lord hits us with something. You are sinning and he hits us with
 some sickness. And then we say, oh, now I understand. This is the kind of guidance we get
 now. But he wants us to progress, to receive, to come to the level when it's the Holy Spirit telling
 us, do this, do that. Well, this is much higher and I'm not there yet. This is some
 very spiritual people. They can reach it, but we still just need to know that there is more.
 And beyond that there are more things, the direct revelations and prophecies and visions and many
 other things which are also possible. There is nothing impossible for the Lord even now in our
 day and age. But we should go step by step. We should not be just dreaming about some revelations.
 We need to stabilize ourselves on this path to the righteousness. If we are standing well in faith,
 then many things, we will have many talents uncovering, talents teaching, talents of caring
 for others and prayer and different talents will be uncovering in us more and more. These seeds of
 the faith will be growing, will be blooming, will be bringing fruits. This is what's going to be
 happening. So the second stage is basically something we need to aim at. That we need to not
 relax ourselves before we get there. And even after we get there, we won't relax. But we should not
 have a despair or some kind of feeling that it's not for me, I never get there. We can and we must
 get there. We ask the Lord to send us the Holy Spirit that He will be with us and we will be in
 Him on this second level. And it won't be because we are super good or very strong in prayer. This
 will be just a gift function. This will be a gift. But we need to learn how to value this gift.
 We should not think about the Holy Spirit either we have it or we don't have it. If we always think
 we don't have it, well then we are profaned and we are living in the sin. We give sanction to all
 these sins. This is a big problem that the catholic church went into. This is profane, just thinking
 that there is a natural world, natural life, natural and there is super nature somewhere out
 there which only saints could reach. No, it is natural for a Christian to live a holy life,
 to be in Christ all the time, to not have any garbage in his soul, to have the Lord in his soul.
 So let us pray that the Lord can strengthen us, can give us this gift of the Holy Spirit
 so that we can partake in his life and bring his life to everyone around us and to be his
 witnesses even unto the end of the world. May the Lord give us his blessing on this Pentecost.
