 Dear brothers and sisters, I'm again in Taichung, in the middle of Taiwan.
 We just had yesterday we had a service of all the saints.
 This is the service which we have after Pentecost.
 On the Pentecost, we have the Holy Spirit coming down on the apostles and disciples.
 And all the saints are the fruit of the Holy Spirit coming down.
 The Holy Spirit makes us united with Jesus Christ.
 And by living in Jesus Christ, the Church brings these truths, the saints who had testimony
 about faith, that love of Christ is true, is real, that his resurrection is real.
 And after celebrating all the saints, we are now entering, today we're entering into the
 land of the apostles.
 We will be fasting for three weeks until the feast of the greatest apostles, Peter and
 Paul, which will be on July the 12th.
 So it's about three weeks from now.
 We will pray more and we also see our role, our calling that the Lord gives us to be fighting
 Satan.
 And now we are facing him as the adversary.
 He is against God and if we are with God, he is against us.
 And this struggle is not going to be an easy struggle, an easy fight.
 So today I want to finish the topic which I began last time, which is related to this.
 And please see the previous one, because it has all the background, how the world came
 into the capitalistic mindset and eventually there were numerous attempts of the devil
 to establish even the next kingdom, the next kind of system, regime that he wants more.
 So by looking at the recent history in the 19th, 20th century, we can see different,
 numerous rehearsals of Antichrist trying to establish his kingdom.
 So this is not just some, oh no, this is history.
 Now Marxism is dead.
 Now it's all history, all those totalitarian, Hitler, fascism, it's all history.
 We're over, now we're in a new world, we're smart, we have a bright future.
 So everything is much more optimistic.
 We're walking into the new bright future.
 No, this is not it.
 The devil will not let you get into your kind of bright future.
 He has his own plan for this bright future.
 And this is what he is now doing by trying to pull the full world into this new system,
 into this new world order that he is trying to establish now.
 And we need to see what are the signs of this new world order.
 And you will see that in different countries, which seem to be at war with each other, or
 which seem to be completely different, there are same policies, same direction, and it's
 all pushing into the same direction.
 So spiritually speaking, what is this?
 This is when the mankind, humans, all of them, they choose not to be with God.
 Most of them decide, no, I want to be with the devil, I want to be with mammon, I want
 to be just with this world, I only want to enjoy this world, I don't care about God.
 The Lord will say, well, you really don't want me, okay, well, just do what you want,
 build this new Babylon that you want, okay, to destruction of your souls.
 This is the big picture.
 So it's not that God is absent, he's not in this world, he's just not intervening with
 the free will.
 So if humanity has again decided to follow the devil, the satan, the Lord will say, well,
 try, you'll see what happens.
 And we should see this darkness, because it tries to present itself as the bright future,
 as solution to all problems of mankind, as a savior.
 The Holy Father said that Antichrist will come as a savior of those who are oppressed,
 of those who are okay, deprived, exploited.
 And we saw that those socialists, Lenin, they also said, we're saving the world, we're saving
 the world, proletariat, and things like that.
 At that time, there were more people who were able to think, and they saw that this is not
 a satanic, it was very attractive, Marxism, socialism, and half of the world received
 this stuff, and lived with it.
 But still there was, even in capitalist countries, many people welcomed these utopian things,
 but it was really too ugly, and it did not go through just as they were hoping it will.
 But now they fine-tune this thing, and now people don't have such an ability to distinguish
 things.
 Everybody is busy with work, no time to think, and they help us think, they make the agenda
 they decide, and they put it into the social media everywhere, and this is what we get.
 Okay, so now at least us, at least the people who decided to follow Christ, we know that
 in the kingdom of Antichrist, there will be no place for the gospel, for the truth of
 the Lord, for the true church.
 So let us think now, deeply, what are the signs, what are the characteristics of this
 new kingdom, so to say, this new order that is emerging, that is coming right now.
 It may take a few generations even, things are going fast, but we don't know how long
 it will take till the final accomplishment of this big plan.
 But we can see it happening, it's taking place right now, as we speak.
 So first of all, we need to know that this new order, it will present itself as something
 very attractive, as something very beneficial, saving the planet.
 So it will be very seductive, it will be difficult, hard to say that we don't want it, because
 it's going to be so beneficial to mankind.
 This is one thing.
 It's not going to be like a gloomy dictatorship, no, it will be like a rosy salvation plan.
 And we also know that this plan is going to be presented to us as inevitable.
 There is no other way to solve the problems.
 This is the only development of the world that has to happen.
 It is conditioned completely by the reality itself, this is how it's going to be presented
 and this is how it's going to be.
 This is the interesting part.
 It will not just be a presentation, they want it to be really inevitable.
 They want to make the reality, to shape the reality in such a way that is going to push
 the whole world in that direction, that it's not just going to be another Hitler, another
 Stalin, no, it's going to be something that has to happen just by the logic of the development
 of the world.
 They want it to be for sure, not something that's conditional and that you can overthrow
 and that you can say "no, we don't want it".
 So this time they want to do it well, globally, no way to escape.
 And also, it's going to come in a way that you either go along with it, or you are marginalized,
 or you're destroyed completely, you don't fit.
 If you don't fit this, you don't have a right to exist.
 It's not going to be just "yes, you like it" or "you don't like it".
 We don't know how strict this is going to be, if it's really like elimination, or it's
 going to be like you're going to die from some sickness, if you don't want this choice,
 if you don't want to follow, or you're just marginalized.
 It's not that bad.
 If you're just marginalized, it's not that bad.
 But it might be more harsh than this, we don't know.
 But it will be super beneficial if you get into it, and you get early.
 If early you get into it, you get the most benefits.
 So it will be attracting you in that way.
 It will be in many ways similar to Marxist and socialist ideas.
 So if you want to know more about what's happening, I recommend rehearsing, reviewing.
 Just do a review of what Marxism is all about, socialism, what was it all about.
 We're told it's history, but very serious economists, all of them, they study the capital
 of Marx, and this Marxist theory is actually not that dogmatic.
 The real Marxism is very flexible, it's adjusting to the situation, it's changing all the time.
 That's Trotskyism, the idea of continuous revolution.
 You always revise and you have the goal, and based on the reality, you change your shape
 and you're pushing your goal.
 So it is very flexible and it's going to be used now a lot.
 And this is why they give these hints.
 We're leftists, we also have the piety for Lenin or those guys, and indeed they are the
 same bunch of people.
 It's just a new time, another epoch, but it's very similar in spirit and in basic intentions.
 So there will be readjustments, but it will be some form of revival of socialism.
 And the inclusive capitalism which they talk about is basically socialism in the new shape.
 Maybe it won't completely eliminate private property.
 And actually the Marxists, the socialists, they did not eliminate the private property
 for the proletariat.
 You can have your own basic things.
 You can have your own shoes, your own CD player or something.
 You can have your own things, but you're a proletariat and you should not have big things.
 That's why they say by 2030 they want to have the society that you own nothing and you're
 happy.
 Of course, you own nothing big, you don't need to own houses, you don't need to own
 cars.
 It's going to be economically not worth it.
 So you rent everything and you're free, you can change, you can move from one place to
 another.
 They're going to give you benefits that are going to be attractive to you to live like
 that.
 But it also means that you completely depend on the system.
 If your rating goes low, you don't have a place to rent, you cannot do anything.
 So you're dependent completely on this system that's reviewing you, supervising you, teaching
 you, educating you, and you have to be part of that whole system of values, ways of life,
 everything.
 You're going to be linked to it.
 You don't have any economic abilities to be free, to be economically independent.
 So that's one thing, and we already see this happen, you own nothing.
 This is Marxism, this is socialism, you have no need, even communism, you don't need to
 own anything.
 And also they are talking about this minimum income that's going to come.
 And well, this is the same thing because people are going to be pushed into that proletariat.
 Everybody, no small business, no middle-sized business, everybody's just pushed to that
 proletariat, you're just simple people, everybody is about the same.
 And of course it's not going to be like in the Soviet Union, it's going to be not that
 equalized, but it's going to be still proletariat.
 And there will be some huge corporations that will have the hold of all the resources, those
 big technocrats, this big Google, Amazon, or be it some other.
 They will have all the big resources, all the big production.
 Most of the products are going to be produced by those giants and they will be presented
 as caring for the well-being of the society.
 They will not be like in the past capitalists just looking for income, no, they will take
 upon themselves something similar with what's happening in Japan already for some time.
 So that's going to be controlled there.
 And it will be also a lot of everything digital, it's going to be everything digital.
 So it's not going to be decided by humans.
 AI is going to be in charge of all the major decisions in terms of all services you get,
 all the benefits you get, in terms of everything.
 And all of your information is going to be there, you're going to have an avatar, a digital
 avatar that's going to be there, it's going to be all digitalized.
 And also it's going to be all virtualized, more and more going into the cloud, going
 into this metaverse, going into that half reality is virtual, half real.
 You have the glasses that help you, they give you more information, you have more control,
 more power in your decision making, your time is more efficient.
 So all the aspects of it are going to come with great benefits to you.
 That's why everybody is going to be loving it.
 So also cyborgization, so you're going to have all kinds of gadgets, maybe one gadget,
 which is going to be controlling your parameters, everything about you, how you breathe, how
 your heart works, your glucose, your everything, and telling you, okay, now for your health,
 you need to take these pills, these mixtures, and this is going to increase your longevity,
 your life is going to be better, you're going to feel better, you're going to live longer.
 And it brings so much benefit to you that everybody is going to take it and use it.
 And technology is there already.
 So it's still developing, but now they have, they're already, all these sciences from Harvard,
 they're saying that this is next door, all these technologies are coming very soon.
 And yes, it is very good and it can be used in a good way, but it also makes you completely
 dependent on what it will tell you.
 It will tell you this, you don't have a choice and you don't have ability to check, to test,
 to see how he is calculating this, that you need to eat this, you need to take these vaccines,
 you need to take this and that, and you just have to trust him.
 And this is your, you completely rely on it and a source of life for you.
 Now we have God is our source of life, but then it will be this thing, will be AI, that's
 your source of life, this new order, that's source of life to you.
 You're going to be depending on it.
 And of course, if you don't go along, you're going to die.
 Maybe you just die from some sickness or something else, but you have to go along with this thing.
 Also he's going to replace all religions with a new kind of religion that is going to be
 something like new age yoga, meditation, this hypnosis, this, just try to escape from all
 your stress, your problems, through some kind of spiritual sleep and apathy and numbness
 to make you feel high and happy and things like that.
 And you won't need God, this religion is going to replace any search for God.
 So there will be no place for the true faith because the true faith makes you awake.
 It gives you a vision, gives you a freedom, spiritual freedom, but they don't want it.
 They want you to have, to go along with their system, their thinking, their ideology.
 So it is difficult to say now how harsh things is going to be.
 The church is going to be either super marginalized, very restricted financially and morally, has
 a very big pressure that is going to shrink, shrink, or maybe even worse.
 In some countries, maybe it's going to be preserved only as some artifact that is just
 some decoration.
 Yes, you want church, here is church, but it's going to be just decorations, some rituals,
 some very superficial, without the core, without message of Christ.
 It's going to be just something like a church, but it's going to be fake.
 Or maybe in some places it's going to be just destroyed, just restricted, forbidden.
 Like in China now, the Orthodox Church is basically illegal, and in many Muslim countries.
 Of course, different regions of the world are going to have this in different shape,
 this new world order.
 But it's going to be all according to one big master plan.
 Don't think that it's going to be different countries competing and things like that.
 It's all going in one big master plan, and everything else is just a performance.
 So now we can see even countries that are fighting with each other are on the same page
 in terms of digitalization, ID, many, many things.
 Social engineering is in one direction.
 So the most fundamental important things are all globalized, and it's in one hand, in the
 hands of those who are pushing the world in that direction.
 So we will see more and more this educational element in this, that everybody is going to
 be brainwashed by some common ideology, common worldview.
 What is good, what is bad, how you should live.
 And people are going to feel, "Yes, this is the best for me."
 It will be like propaganda, but it will be in such a sneaky way that it's going to be
 not so, "Oh, this is propaganda."
 They don't want any reaction.
 They want to have it as natural, as smooth as possible.
 So that is completely embraced by everybody, but by 99.9% of the people.
 But it's going to be everywhere, so that people think in the same way, people have the same
 reaction to things.
 It's all going to be like that, more and more.
 And they will say, "You see, it's a union.
 We don't have any wars.
 We don't have any social tension anymore.
 It's such a great system.
 It's a new world, it's an achievement of humanity.
 Finally we achieved this paradise on Earth, this Babylon.
 We are building it.
 It's successful."
 And everybody is going to say, "Yes, wow, this is it."
 Let us be aware of where we're going, where the world is going, because many things happen
 here and there, and we have news.
 You have to put it into the big picture.
 Otherwise, really, it seems to be so nice, so good.
 "Oh, this is just developmental science.
 Oh, this is some good development.
 This is ecological.
 It's very good to have a good protection of the environment."
 This is good.
 You put it all together and you see the big picture, you see how satanic it is.
 He doesn't need God, he has no place for faith, for religion, for human freedom.
 No.
 No.
 It wants everybody to worship him, to worship Antichrist, to depend on him, maybe not to
 worship to put a candle and have this ritual, but basically to be loyal and to be completely
 loving him.
 He wants everybody to love him, to have no other subject or object of adoration.
 Only him.
 He is everything to you.
 First, it's going to be his kingdom, his new system, new world is coming.
 So let us be aware, let us be ready for that.
 It is going to be maybe a very shaky time now, sometimes, maybe at least until 2030.
 It's going to be quite shaky, wars and revolutions and social problems, but then they are hoping
 to have this new system in place.
 Maybe it's going to take a few generations because we can see from the past, they've
 tried to bring the system, this world revolution of communists, but it failed.
 Maybe this new system that they're bringing is also going to fail, have some backlashes
 and have some, you know, backfire or things like that.
 It might happen, they're also, they're not gods, they're just humans who are instruments,
 tools of the devil.
 So they can also, their plan can just fail in many ways.
 But then he's going to try another way, another way.
 We need to know that the devil has plenty of time.
 He's going to try to, again and again, pushing in that direction.
 So many things that we've had before, even like eugenics, these Nazis loved, and even
 in other countries, even in British scientists a hundred years ago, they liked it.
 Those ideas of making a great, best, better humans.
 They are now getting back through genetic sciences and all that genetic engineering
 on humans and things like that.
 So it's all coming in a different shape, but it's also coming back.
 So he has his plan and he's trying to not like this, maybe like this, maybe like this,
 not like this.
 So let us beware of those attempts, of that hatred the devil has against humans.
 It's not because he loves you, he wants to give you things.
 It's because he hates you.
 He wants you to be split, alienated from God.
 And he brings anything possible that you slip into that trap and that your soul is destroyed
 and goes together with him into destruction and eternal condemnation.
 Let us be safe from that.
 Let us be strong in our faith and be ready for the challenge and be ready to cope, to
 face any kind of temptation, fight, deceit that may be brought, devised by the devil
 against us and his holy church.
 I mean, may the Lord and all the saints be with us and keep us wise and strong in this
 fight.
 I mean, God bless.
