 Dear brothers and sisters, the last couple of videos were about the end of the world,
 but it may not come as soon as you expect.
 We need to be ready for it anytime, but we also need to be ready if needed for another
 hundreds of years.
 So today I want to talk about a more down-to-earth topic, the topic of health, because this brings
 also some spiritual concerns.
 Well, the most important, most common problem that we know is that people don't care about
 their health, eating junk food and unhealthy lifestyle and bad habits and many other things,
 just destroying our health.
 More and more we have health-conscious people that care about what they eat, about exercising,
 about longevity, other issues, and which is also bringing some threats with it, some spiritual
 threats, because if we make an idol from our body, from health, how healthy we are, or
 how nice we look, muscles or some other things, this is also becoming an idolatry.
 So where is this golden balance, where is this the right approach?
 Today I want to talk about this, because there is another problem, which is a pseudo-spirituality,
 maybe monophysyte, it's a spirituality that says we care about more important things,
 we care about spiritual things, about prayer, about God, so leave it alone, why it should
 concern us to care about health and things like this.
 Some radical people they get into that kind of mistake, and maybe it's better to get into
 that kind of mistake than to get into some kind of idolatry.
 But in any case, as Saint Ambrose of Milan said, "If God is in the first place, everything
 else is in the right place".
 So the first thing that we need to say is that health is not the highest priority for
 a Christian, but it's not the least, the last one.
 It is also important, and actually it's very important, but it's not as important as the
 spiritual life and pursuit for God and His truth, which must obsess the heart of a Christian.
 How do I love Christ, what do I do, how do I reach His truth, what can I do to come closer
 to Him, to have a deeper repentance, to live His commandments, to have the heart of a Christian,
 not loving, self-sacrificing.
 All these concerns are spiritual.
 And having said that, we also recall that any sickness is, well, not any sickness, but
 there is a relationship between sin and death.
 So many sicknesses that we have are actually resulting from sin.
 So the best, the first thing that we have to do is to get rid of sin.
 And then we'll solve more than half of our health problems.
 And some things the doctors won't tell you, for example, we read the fifth commandment,
 have piety to your father and your mother, venerate your mother and your father, and
 you will have a long life and all kinds of goodness, blessings.
 Well, medicine will tell you how is this connected.
 I mean, you obey your father and your mother and you'll have a long life, this doesn't
 make sense.
 But for us, it does.
 We believe God more than we believe medicine.
 Because medicine knows something and we don't challenge it, but it doesn't know many things
 yet.
 So this is another dimension, the dimension of moral and spiritual life.
 Unless they are sound, anything else loses its meaning.
 If you are dirty inside, but you look nice, you have big muscles, your soul, that doesn't
 make you nice in front of God.
 The soul is ugly and sick.
 So we need to clean first the heart, the soul.
 This is the first thing to do before we get really concerned about health matters.
 So having said this, we need to find this balance.
 We cannot be superficial about what we're talking about now.
 So please have patience, bear with me.
 I will say more important things about this topic today.
 First of all, we have different kinds of callings for a Christian.
 For example, we have a calling to become a martyr.
 That means that there are things for which you can and should die if you are a Christian,
 if you love Christ.
 And that means that they're more important than your health and your longevity.
 There are things that are more important and you need to be ready to die for it.
 And you need to be ready to die anytime, any minute, and be happy about it.
 If the Lord decides that now it's time for you to meet with Him and to be with Him, you
 need to be ready for that and you need not to avoid it, not to have any fear of death
 or even sickness for that matter.
 However, many people don't have this arrangement and calling, and the Lord wants them to walk
 a different path, a path of many years, maybe decades of ascotism and ministry to Him.
 This is daily martyrdom that they serve Him, they are His witnesses.
 He said, "You will be my witnesses to the end of the world."
 So they are His witnesses and they go and we go and we do this testimony.
 And to do this, maybe He wants you to do it for another hundred years, who knows?
 But now you're destroying your health.
 So you won't be able to do it for that long.
 So we need to be ready for that.
 But both ascotism and ministry, any type of ministry, be it mission, be it house, educating
 children, caring for family, be it some other career project, any ministry to the Lord also
 requires health.
 Even when monks, they come into a monastery and they are sick, there are not many expectations
 that they will have great success in spiritual life, because they cannot do much prayer,
 they cannot do bows, they cannot do strict fasting, they cannot read the spiritual literature,
 they cannot do almost anything if their health is fair.
 So it's influencing, your state of your health will influence what can you do for the Lord.
 And it has direct relationship to what you can do spiritually, there is this cause unit.
 So people, Orthodox, who say, "Well, no, we just pray, we don't care about what we eat,
 how we sleep, we don't care about all these things, this is nonsense, this is all nonsense."
 Maybe then they become fat like this and they get sick and they die soon.
 I mean, this is another trick coming from the devil, who wants to destroy people, he
 is a murderer.
 So you are just following him, and this is a pseudo-spirituality, it is not real spirituality.
 So we see in the first Epistle of St. Paul to Timothy, in chapter 5 verse 23, he said,
 he wrote, "From now on, don't drink just water, but also use some oil, a little bit of wine
 for the reason of your stomach and because of your often sicknesses, many sicknesses or
 illnesses."
 So we see that Timothy, he was disciple of St. Paul, he was quite young yet, but his
 health was not very good.
 He had these stomach problems, some kind of issues with metabolism, and this produces
 all kinds of other sicknesses.
 So we also see that he was sick very often, Apostle Paul knows that.
 And Timothy, he also wanted to have ascetic life.
 This is in the context, if we see the previous verse, 22, we see that he has "preserve yourself
 clean".
 Clean heart also means to have ascetic life.
 So maybe he wanted to have a clean heart and don't follow his passions or don't rely on
 tasty food and drinks.
 So he didn't drink anything but water.
 And Apostle Paul tells him, don't do that.
 Little bit of wine, adding and mixing it with water is good, is better for your stomach.
 Not for enjoyment, not that you have a more tasty life, but for health, for the purpose
 of health.
 So we see that he cares about this, and there is nothing wrong with it.
 So some other fathers, they say that your body should be like a donkey, and the donkey
 you need to lose the bridle, or horse for that matter, the bridle.
 Sometimes you make it stricter, you pull it, sometimes you release it.
 You need to control this body, sometimes give it a little bit of food, sometimes letting
 it abstain from sleep so that it doesn't fall, it doesn't fall down because it's overtired
 or has a lack of food.
 But it's also not just sufficient with everything, just eating whatever it wants.
 So we need to care about this.
 So what things are important regarding health?
 Well, of course, what we eat, what we drink, the diet is important to know that there is
 some junk food, exercise is important, vitamin supplements, we need to have some basic understanding
 what is good for us, what we're lacking.
 To know that we might need some monitoring to check blood and stuff like that, there
 is nothing bad about it.
 Sleep, it should be not too much and not too little.
 Some rhythm, our rhythm should be well, this biological clock should run well.
 Also our brain, we need to always exercise our brain through what we read, what we do.
 All these things, they are important.
 However, they should not become absolute value, absolute must.
 Because it's like a car, you're interested, you're given a car, you own a car, this is
 something that's given to you by the Lord, who wants you to use it, to do some good things
 with it.
 And of course you need to maintain it, you need to care about it.
 You cannot say, "Oh, the things I'm doing now are so important, so I don't have time
 to care about the car, I just don't change oil, I don't do all those things, I just do
 important things with it."
 Well, this is a line, this is just an excuse.
 We need to take care of it, how we drive, where we drive, how we maintain it.
 However, if there is some emergency, for example we need to rescue someone, of course we can
 drive real fast, which may be even harmful to the car.
 Of course we can drive somewhere, maybe in the field, which is also going to be damaging
 the car, but it's going to be to save someone's life, let's say.
 So the same thing goes with our body.
 Normal maintenance, we need to give it normal maintenance, all those things we've just listed.
 But we also, if needed, for some purpose.
 We can see from Postol Pol, his life, so much challenge, he went to places where he got
 beaten, and where when he was hungry, or in some prisons, or in the heat, or in the cold,
 he didn't say "Oh, sorry, I care about my daily glucose intake, so I cannot do this,
 I cannot do that, because it will damage my rhythm, it will damage my diet, so no, no,
 this is idolatry, and this is selfishness, and narcissism.
 The greatest problem with us caring too much about our health is that we have this selfishness,
 egoism.
 And we can feel it actually if we go to a fitness center, that very often people don't
 want to talk to each other, people are just focused on my muscle, my exercise, my time.
 There is this spirit of egoism, because it's you doing exercise for yourself, for your
 own body, so it triggers this egoistic mindset.
 And also narcissism, looking at your muscles, in front of the mirror, so all of that is
 removing God's blessing from this health consciousness that people have, that we may
 have.
 So let us remember this, let us remember that this is very important.
 And Apostle Paul also in the pistol to Ephesians, he said "You need to glorify God in everything
 you do.
 No matter if you drink, or if you eat, or if you do something else, glorify God."
 So if we do anything concerning that's helping us be healthy, that has to be done for the
 Lord, so that we can do better ministry to Him, that our brain is healthier, we can think
 and do more things with our brain and with our body, that we can pray longer, we can
 do more bowels, we can help more people for a longer time, if this is our motivation,
 then it will bring God's blessing with it.
 And another big, and also with this glory, we can even see if from another side, I said
 that KU can be healthy, nice looking body, but you are ugly inside, but if you can manage
 this ignorance, if you can become beautiful in your heart, we are supposed to have kingdom
 of God in our hearts, if we can reach this and then we compare our body is healthy and
 nice looking, or it's big and fat and sick, so just by comparing how we look, we can think
 which kind of situation glorifies God more.
 He created us to be fat and sick, or He created us to be healthy and doing many positive things,
 having all kinds of ability to do that.
 Of course, He wants you to be strong and healthy and capable of doing many things.
 So this is also glorifying God through healthy life.
 But it's not as important as your soul, I'll come back to it.
 You have to begin with your soul.
 And this takes us to another question.
 All these things which I've mentioned that we should take care about regarding our health,
 they require strong will, and they require a clear mind able to understand all these
 health-related matters.
 So we don't have it.
 Very often we don't have strong will.
 Today we have a mood, we do things, and we're falling down, we don't want it.
 Or we don't understand what it's all about, all these different supplements, vitamins,
 we don't get it, or we do wrong things, we harm ourselves.
 To fix this, the first thing that we have to do is to have union with the Lord.
 And this union comes through confessing our sins and through receiving the Holy Communion.
 When the Lord Himself comes inside us and He is destroying all this sin, all this sting
 of death that's inside us, He is limiting, He is undermining that, and this will heal
 our heart, will heal our will of power, will be capable of doing more.
 When we receive the Holy Communion, we say we receive it to the healing of soul and body.
 Not only the healing of soul, which is more important, but also for the healing of body.
 We need to heal our soul in order to be able also to heal our body.
 So let us think about this, without this, we won't be able to do it.
 We know that it's right, I'm supposed to do exercise, but I just don't find any motivation
 for it.
 It's not enough, and I don't find time for it, all kinds of problems are going to come
 and you won't be able to do that.
 So it's only through healing and through receiving the Lord's blessing that we can do that.
 So let us remember about this, let us have a good balance in terms of how much we care
 about our health, have wisdom about these things, and not to make it undermine our love
 to Christ, so that our health consciousness doesn't become a new age religion.
 That we become this yoga and things like this, vegan and we just care about, it's very egoistic
 and it's a challenge, it's like saying "I can manage without you, I want this life,
 I don't want to be with you, I'm afraid of death, I don't want that.
 I just want to stick to this life".
 Of course this is paganism and this is challenging God, this is very anti-Christian in nature,
 so we have to be careful not to get into that trap.
 May the Lord give you strong health, give you healing of the soul, and help us do more
 to His glory, both in ministry and ascotism, living with Him and doing testimony for Him,
 I mean, God bless.
 We can use all these technologies that are out there already developed, maybe they were
 developed for egoistic purposes, but now we also can use them not for egoistic purposes,
 for glorification of God and for doing greater, more ministry to Him.
 There is another, sorry, I'll add one more thing, there is another mistake that people
 make, they say "well, everything is decided already, how long will I live?
 The Lord has already decided, no?
 So by trying to lengthen your lifespan, are you challenging Him?
 This is also a fake, this is a lie, because the Lord gave us great liberty, great freedom
 about our lives also.
 So for example, if you want to kill yourself, you can go and kill yourself.
 You decide, so if you can decide such thing, you can also decide to overcome, to avoid
 sicknesses which are coming because of unhealthy foods that we eat and many other factors,
 unhealthy lifestyle, we're going to fix those things, we can do something about it.
 The Lord knows that somebody is going to commit suicide, the Lord knows that you are going
 to take care of your health and live longer, or you won't do it until you die earlier.
 He knows everything, but this doesn't mean that He doesn't give you this freedom.
 So now we have this freedom and we can really do many things to influence even how long
 we may live.
 Of course, if we have the blessing of the Lord and if we do it to glorify Him and not
 for self-egoristic purposes, may the Lord give you health, give you wisdom, and help
 us live in this new world that is coming, where many fake values are going to be proclaimed
 regarding this health consciousness, regarding many things.
 It's going to be fake, anti-Christian values proclaimed, but we need to filter out what
 comes from the Lord and what comes from the Antichrist.
 May the Lord help you and give you blessing, I mean.
