 Dear brothers and sisters, last time I've spoke about what makes us stuck in terms of physical health and longevity, that we destroy ourselves physically.
 Today I want to say about what is preventing us from spiritual development and even intellectual development.
 Something that makes us stupid, makes us unable to communicate with others, that makes us arrogant.
 And if we find faith, it can make us go astray into heresy.
 Or even if we don't go to heresy, we are still stuck and we cannot improve. This is also very common.
 That with Christians we are struggling and we don't have love towards others and we don't have much improvement in faith, we don't bring fruits of faith.
 And all of that happens for a number of reasons. But one very common problem that we have is our vainglory.
 And this is a passion that we don't notice. Many passions are very obvious, we just go into scenes and this is very obvious.
 But some passions, they are sneaky and they are like snakes who are hiding in the grass.
 Most people will say "I'm not vainglorious, I don't have that problem. I know people who are vainglorious, but it's not me, I'm fine."
 But if we think about it, all of us are very, very self-vainglorious. Just to consider some examples. If somebody is saying about your achievement or say your titles in front of others and you feel good, you feel nice, you feel warm.
 If somebody is asking about your experience or about your education or you meeting some important people, of course you will tell them this and that and you will be blooming.
 Because this is saying something about you, that you are also important, that you are also special, different from others. This is all vainglory.
 And even if sometimes we flatter others, "oh you are so smart, oh you are so something", this means that we love to be flattered ourselves. And the sound of David says that whoever flatter is like a murderer.
 It all comes from the satin. You deceive others, you use nice honey words to deceive, to blind someone, to buy him, to manipulate him.
 And all of this is similar to killing people. It's not much different. All of us are vainglorys. And from childhood we are educated that you need to achieve, you need to be better than others, you need to be special.
 And our parents tell us that you are so special, you are so smart. And even Freud and modern psychology will tell you that you have to have great self-esteem, self-confidence, otherwise you will be thrown away from this life.
 So you have to go and you are the best, you are the smartest. Just go out and do it. This is anti-Christian. And this really makes us blind.
 Let's just read Revelation 3 verse 17. "Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked."
 This is spoken about in the church. And God tells, the angel of the Lord tells that you think that you are fine and you are very confident and you have something, but really you are nothing.
 You are miserable and blind and naked. This also happens with the churches very often. They think, "Oh yes, hallelujah, we know everything and we are great and shining and stuff like that."
 But in reality, there is no spirit there. And the message to just regular people is that when we achieve this state, every one of us, we have this feeling, "Well, I want to be in possession of the knowledge, I want to be stable and fixed."
 That I can answer different questions that people ask me. That they know that I am important, that I have the status. And I have enough resources and everything for many years ahead.
 And then this is how I want to be. And the Lord will say, "You have reached this state, but this is nothing. This is actually you are miserable and you are blind and naked."
 So, for us, there are many examples. There are many examples. We see this in daily life. This problem has two aspects. There is a secular aspect that people, we are now not talking about faith, but people get fixed in some framework, some mindset.
 We can see sometimes with older people, very evident that they have their worldview and they cannot adjust to the reality that we have now. This kind of mindset.
 Or, say, the narrow-minded nationalism. When we hear that someone is saying, "Well, our small little nation, but it's the most ancient nation, all the civilization came out of there, the writing system, everything actually came from there.
 And actually you know that superstar and that hero and that champion. You know what they are? They are this nation.
 When we hear things like this, we laugh inside. We know that it's funny because the person is blinded. It's not funny. We laugh at it because we have this understanding how far this person is from reality.
 In the same way, we are blinded in many ways. And this is why people cannot understand many things. Even with the health that I've talked, people don't get it and they still have problems.
 Or people don't understand many things, how this world runs. Many things that they hear, they become very easily manipulated because they are given what they hear and they are manipulated.
 They don't get it because they don't have this humbleness in their heart. But in this secular aspect, we can see the Western civilization, the ancient Greek philosophy found this path of humbleness.
 From Socrates who said that I don't know anything. I just want to know. I'm nothing myself and I don't know anything. And now I just want to discover, to find out this mindset of a child.
 And also the Lord said, if you don't become like children, you will not enter into the kingdom of heaven. In Matthew 18. The science developed from that perspective and the science did not develop anywhere else.
 Even in China, which is a great civilization. No, it did not develop. Only some technologies, but not the science as we know it. Because the science has this initial idea that we don't know the mysteries out there.
 We don't make any dogmas about what the world is. We just go and discover. And if we discover that our previous theories were false or fake, we just abandon it or adjust it.
 So this is why the science developed so much. And in terms of spiritual life, well, also coming back to the secular setting, when a person is given a little bit of power, still have some little bit, he is elevated, you see he's changed.
 Now he is better than others. Now he has control of something. He can do this, he can do that. People change. And this is also, when we change, if we are given power tomorrow, we will change a lot.
 So this is because of this faint glory. And this is why the Lord doesn't give us many things. And doesn't give us even understanding of things. Because we don't have that humbleness. We will attribute it to our own intellect and other things.
 What is your IQ? What is your this? What is your that? And people like to write their names. Oh, this is my name. It appears here. On my resume I have fixed this achievement. I present myself like this. I have big smile like this. And all of this is faint glory.
 All of this is faint glory. And the Lord departs from people who have this faint glory. He doesn't give them blessing.
 And we just focus on taking the cross and following him. And not what we are, what we have, what we know, what relationships we have with some influential people. This is all garbage. This is all nonsense for us.
 There is a saying by the same Theophan the Reckless. He said, so many people, you are obvious garbage, but you keep saying to yourself that I'm different from all other people.
 This is phenomenal. He noticed in the society so many people, their character, their way of life, their mindset. It's really ugly, but they think that they are super special, super important.
 If you criticize them, then they have a great scandal that you wounded their personality and stuff like that.
 This is a big problem. And sometimes we see people, and just the person is very proud. He is very proud. He doesn't want to talk to anybody.
 He has no weight in society. He has no knowledge. But he just has that prowess.
 This is a problem that is like a virus that is infecting everybody. And now we come to see what's in the Church, because we bring this virus inside the Church.
 And this is why we don't have love among each other. This is why we don't progress in faith, and come and confess the same things all over again.
 And very often we stop coming to Church. We don't want to go to Church anymore. This all comes very often related to vainglory.
 And Apostle Paul, in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 9, he says,
 And the Lord said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather boast in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
 So the key here, we see from Apostle Paul that the more weak you are, the more you recognize your wretchedness, your weakness, your limitations,
 the more the power of God is able to act through you, to be manifest through what you do, through what you say.
 Then you begin breathing spiritually, because you are no longer focused on "I am something", "I know something", "I mean something".
 So, this is very important. We had this problem, another example, we had it in the Philippines. One of our missionaries, he declared that he is a bishop.
 I have talked to him many times and asked him that this hurts the Church, because he pulled away many faithful, it was a great scandal, temptation for many people.
 I told him, "Why do you do this? I mean, we want to have this common project, we want to bring more people to faith".
 He was listening, but he could not hear me, because for him it is me, my status, my glory, I am a bishop, I am this.
 You are a fake bishop, you are nothing, you are just bones and meat. What are you?
 All of us, we are all just bones and meat, and even worse, because we do bad things with this body.
 So, we are all miserable, we are all garbage in front of the Lord, objectively speaking.
 So, it is so important for us to break away from this self-glorification, self-esteem, self-confidence.
 Our confidence comes from Christ, not from our own achievement, status or whatever.
 How to do this? To make someone humble for children, or if we are in the army, in a monastery, there will be a strict supervisor,
 who will say, "You are stupid, you are garbage, you forget this, you forget that, you don't know how to do this".
 And the person becomes humble and then he can learn, he can learn how to change.
 If we don't have someone like this pushing us, then we need to be able to do it ourselves, call ourselves.
 To break away from this mindset, from this feeling, because sometimes we know we have this problem, but we cannot fix it.
 At least we need to understand that each and every one of us has it and then we need to find ways of fixing it.
 We need to not avoid people who criticize us, for those who are very straight, maybe even without reason, maybe even undeserved.
 But we feel that, "He said these painful words about me, this is good for me, this hits my pain-glory heart, I am not as good as I thought, myself, I am nothing, I am garbage".
 And of course, if we can put ourselves in that kind of setting, that I am not just the best, I am the boss, I tell people this is not typical.
 But we are in the setting that we can be adjusted by other people, our blind spots, our vainglory, they can adjust it, they can see it, they can tell us.
 Because this society now is pollute correctness, "Oh, you are so smart", "Oh, you have this status", "Oh, it's very fake, very full of deceit".
 We should know the flattery of this world and we need to avoid it, avoid it in our families, with our friends.
 This spirit of deceit, this spirit of fakeness, this spirit of flattery that is all around us.
 We need to be like children, like the Lord said, not this infancy, we don't have responsibility, run around, play games all the time, no.
 Like children in terms of humble heart, open mind, willing to embrace what people say, different views, compare.
 And there is also another important thing that sometimes we can be tricked, is that devil is mimicking the Lord and his virtues.
 So, some of these sects and fake religions, there is only one true religion, which is true Christianity, Orthodox Christianity, but many fake religions, even Eastern religions, they have this as though they are so humble and they don't need anything from this world, they are distant from this world.
 And they pretend that they are very pious and humble, but you just need to touch it a little bit, and you'll discover that it's full of problems, it's full of wing glory, it doesn't tolerate anything else, any other views.
 It considers that they are the saviors of the world, and that everybody else is just blind and full, that is in need of being rescued by them, through them.
 They are some arhants or some buddhas or something else, so it's actually fake, there is no real humbleness in those religions, because they rely only on themselves, and of course the devil is also helping,
 but in terms of what they preach, what they believe is that I myself, I can grow, I can develop, like Buddha himself said, everything I've achieved, it's only me myself, I never ask anyone else.
 And they find it shameful to ask something from someone else, to rely on God, oh how shameful it is, so we can feel it's great proudness, it's immense proudness out there.
 So let us be wise, the devil is trying to mimic the virtue, but it's all fake, the true virtue comes from the Lord and from the Holy Spirit.
 May this virtue be with us, may the Lord keep us away from any sin, any deceit, any flattery of this world, that only truth and his goodness, his blessing be with us, amig.
 God bless.
