 Dear brothers and sisters, maybe some of you are Orthodox, others are Catholic, Protestant, or some of your relatives' friends are Protestant-Catholic.
 Today's topic, well, is triggered by some comment. One Russian subscriber, he said that, "Well, I'm preaching some Western-style Christianity, and it doesn't look like Orthodox."
 Well, his comment prompted me to reply, even though I don't know what he meant, because he never explained what exactly is, I don't know, Western, liberal, heretical in what I say.
 This is why I think, in general, this needs some clarification, because in these days, when there is this great spiritual war and temptation that the Church is going through, and the whole world is actually going through, as a matter of fact, we need to know who is who and what is what.
 And also, we need to distinguish teaching, tradition, say, Catholicism, Protestantism, and people, this individual person, he is Catholic, he is Protestant, but we need to distinguish him/her as a person, as opposed to talking about Catholicism and Protestantism, or some other form of Christianity or sect, or I don't know.
 Teaching. So, first of all, we need to distinguish these two things. And myself, I have many friends who are Catholics, who are Protestants, and they know my position, that I'm not a communist, because it's very common now to be a communist, and even within the Church, in the Orthodox Church, we have plenty of people who are liberals,
 who are fellow Catholics, who are secretly gay, they love everything, say, Western or Catholic or liberal, whatever.
 So, it is a good intention to try to find out, this person, this priest, he is saying that he is Orthodox, he seems to be Orthodox, but is he really Orthodox?
 So, this is why I was not offended by such a comment, but I find it useful and relevant to talk about this.
 First of all, we need to see the creed, how we believe, what is the core of our belief. We believe in one, holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church, so we believe the Church is one, and this one Church is established by Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ is the head of this Church, and the Church is the body.
 We cannot have one head and two bodies, three bodies, it's monster, no, so one head, one body, so we believe in one, holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church, and this one holy Church is the Orthodox Church, because, what else?
 So, any other tradition, any people who believe in Jesus Christ, who have the Holy Bible, we can call them, in the broad sense, Christians, in a very broad sense, we can call them Christians, because they believe in Jesus Christ, but in narrow sense, we cannot do that.
 In any case, we cannot say that they are members of the Church. We can have good friendship with them, we can have cooperation, we can have all kinds of dialogue in theology, in any field, however, we don't have a union, and we cannot say that they are united with Jesus Christ in the way we are united.
 Through the Holy Eucharist, which is only one, there is one Eucharist, and there is one body of Christ.
 Okay, having said this, we need to also recall that there was one man who, in the Gospel, we read, and the disciples, they said, there is one guy, and he is not following us, but he is chasing out demons, so we stopped him, we restricted him from doing that, and the Lord said, no, don't do that.
 Whoever is not against you is for you, so even though he doesn't follow, he is out there, somewhere, if he is doing the work of God, if he is doing the project of the Lord, he is not your enemy, he is your friend, he is on your side, this is important.
 Don't just go by formal pre-principle, okay, oh, this, are you Orthodox, are you baptized, when you received the Holy Communion last time, did you confess all your sins, okay, maybe I consider that you are my person, everybody else is enemy, heretic, and getaway, you go to hell, no, this is crazy.
 So, okay, we have, even within the Church, we have some people who are liberal, ultra-liberal, we have people who are conservative, ultra-conservative, the Church itself is the truth, it doesn't have liberal-conservative, it's the truth.
 But some people, they tend to be, okay, holier than the Pope of Rome, as we say, too holy, more holy than the Holy Fathers, than Jesus Christ himself, so this criticism might be coming from that camp of ultra-conservative people.
 So, having said this, we need to now think, what is this phenomenon of Western Christian world, it's basically Catholic and Protestant, and how do we see it, what is our attitude, understanding of this.
 And today we don't have time to talk about why all this split happened and other things happened, but we can say that originally the Church of Rome was Orthodox for 1000 years, roughly, and only later, after 1000 years, the Western Church, the Church of Rome, the Latin Church, it split away.
 Because this idea of this primacy of the Pope and his special role in the Church was growing, growing, growing, then adding some new aspects to the faith, like the filioque and other things, it was drifting away, eventually it broke away.
 And after breaking away, tons of new teachings and errors crept in, and after another 200 years, even this Western Church came to conquer the Byzantine and the Orthodox Church.
 During the Third Crusade, when Byzantine Constantinople was plundered, and people were forcefully converted to Catholicism in many places, and so it was evident that this is already coming not from Christians, that these people who call themselves Christians are already not Christians.
 By the spirit, by the attitude, then we see the spirituality, Francis Assisi, later Ignatius, meditations, all this compasio, all these things, this is all error, this is all error, because the central spirit of Antichrist was already there.
 The Pope, he wants this power over the whole Church and over even the governments, he has this political agenda, so all of that made it so evident that Catholicism is no longer part of the Church of Christ.
 So, what can we say? We can say that this is our yesterday's brother, our yesterday's companion, we were fighting together with the devil, but now he left, now he is doing his own project.
 Still, we have hope that he comes back and becomes like he used to be, but now it's already a way.
 I'm now talking about Catholicism as a whole, not about individuals. Also, we can bring a parable, let's say, remember the disciples who were in the ship, they were in the ship and rowing in the tempest against the wind, the wind was against them,
 they were rowing to another, to the opposite shore, and the Lord saw them in this torment.
 This is the image of the Church. We are going against the wind, against the trend, against this power of this prince of this world, Antichrist, against all these passions, temptations, errors, deceit, the Church is going in that direction.
 And it's tough.
 So, in the beginning, some of the people in this ship, some of our friends within the ship, brothers, they were, well, say that's the Roman Church, but eventually they decided to go somewhere else.
 Why? It's too tough. We just have some other agenda. So, this ship had a sort of split off. The original ship was going forward, as it always used to go, but part of it sort of became another ship, split off, and went into a more safe place.
 Saved by these worldly standards, without much wind, which was more stable, well established, had some properties, some income, some power, political power, and many other things.
 So, it went in that direction. And sometimes even hitting this ship, which was still going in this direction against the devil.
 So, these former brethren of ours, they changed the way they looked at things, the way they enjoyed the power they have now, because now they think, oh, we were on a motorboat, now we are powerful, we have something.
 But this power came from earthly sources, money, these knights, all this stuff. And it became no longer an obstacle for the devil. It was actually doing the devil's work in some way, but still calling themselves the church and stuff like that.
 And later, some of them, some of the people in that boat, they saw that it's going in the wrong way. It's not where the boat is supposed to go, because they read the instruction manual, which says you're supposed to go to the kingdom of heaven, but you're going to hell.
 So, they began to jump out from the boat and establish their own sects and denominations, and those became the Protestants. Some of them, they were trying to swim in the same direction as the church, the Orthodox.
 Some were swimming in completely different directions, some drowned, but it was a failure. Overall, it was a failure. So, this is what happened.
 And of course, now we can say, certainly we can learn something from them also, because those are former brothers of ours. They still have some skills that they used to have while with us, but now they have their own agenda, they do something else, but we still can learn some things from them.
 Why not? So, this is why, it's like you're a good friend that was in one project with you. But later, he became arrogant, proud, and he said, "No, I'll do something else."
 And he changed, his personality changed, his attitude changed. So, you look at him, you see that he is different now. You're hoping that he comes back, he becomes the same as you, the same as you were, both of you in the beginning.
 He shares the same values, the same spirit, but no, he's not coming back. And still, of course, you can see that something in him remained from what he used to be.
 And you can still see those things, and value those things, and learn from him, and recall what he used to be. And that's going to help you, because it was not you, it was another.
 So, there are tons of valuable things in the West, which date to the Orthodox time, when the West was Orthodox, including prayers, including works of Holy Fathers, and many, many things.
 Lives of saints, missionary experience. Those things are dating back to those times. And as Orthodox Church, we can learn from that past experience of the Orthodox Church, but not the East in the West.
 And that way make the practice, the tradition of today richer, fuller. There is nothing wrong with that. It's not called Philo-Catholicism, or loving the West, or loving heresy, or loving Catholicism.
 No, you love Orthodox. Orthodox, but which is there? And of course, you don't abandon your own tradition. You don't say, "Oh, everything is there. Now we don't have anything. Everything is back there."
 Any lack of balance is not healthy. And this is the situation. We need to be wise about these things. We need to be open to everyone who is willing to be friends, to work together, to fight evil together.
 No matter what background, what denomination he is in. But when it comes to the truth, we should say, "This is the truth, and this is not the truth." No communism.
 "This is the truth, and we care about what truth is." If you don't care, it's your problem. But we care. We do care what truth is, and we need to preserve this truth, and live by this truth.
 Because this is how we gain salvation.
 May the true spirit of the Gospel be with us, be open to us, to understanding life according to the Gospel.
 May we remain in this union with Jesus Christ, and all our Orthodox brethren who are biased, or who are slipping away, come back to the full knowledge of the truth.
 And those who are not Orthodox, who are outside of the Church yet, to find out more about what Orthodox faith is, what the Orthodox Church is.
 Not be stumbled by some people who are not representing the Orthodox, but they are a bad example of Orthodox. To find out, mainly from the saints, from the saints of the Orthodox Church, especially from the recent saints.
 Because the recent saints, they talk more about this heterodoxy, like Saint Ignatius Brinchinina, he is explaining what it is all about.
 Saint Theophan the Reckless, and many others, they show us this error, and this wrong spirit, false, fake spirituality.
 And find out that here we find the full union with Jesus Christ in the Holy Eucharist, we become members of the body of Christ, and are able to carry out this testimony for the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ.
 Amen. May the Lord be with everyone and give us His strength and wisdom and humbleness. Amen. God bless.
