 Dear brothers and sisters, in January this year I've been on a mission to Sri Lanka
 and it was a very successful mission.
 Few hundred people decided to convert to ortho excretiate.
 Some of them were baptized but still a great project is to be developed.
 Now it's growing, the mission is growing, we are in constant communication.
 Many initiatives, youth groups and many communities are converting to orthodoxy in very different
 parts of the island.
 Such success is quite amazing in our days.
 Today I want to share with you some thoughts on the development there and on the mission
 overall, because we have a lot of things we need to improve in terms of mission, our attitude
 towards mission, what should be done, what can be done, how it should be done.
 We hear about Sri Lanka recently but because of those revolts and all kinds of political
 issues there, but the reason why I decided to talk about Sri Lanka is not because of
 this.
 Actually, we should tell ourselves if I'm watching news or listening to some YouTube
 channels only when it's relating to some overall topic that everybody is talking about, some
 news agenda or something like that, then there is something wrong with me.
 This is called worldliness.
 For a Christian, this is a disease.
 If we live only where the world lives, the world is concerned about, I don't know, some
 crisis, and everybody, and we also all know what's about this crisis.
 Sri Lanka, what's about Sri Lanka?
 He should be completely separate.
 For us, the great agenda and the main agenda is the Lord Jesus Christ and how to reach
 his kingdom of heaven.
 And people say, "Oh, no, everybody knows about that.
 No, no, what is happening now?"
 That's a big mistake, that's a big mistake.
 We are completely reversing the order of priority.
 So I want to talk about it, because I have some new thoughts and it's more than half
 a year that's passed after that.
 And also, I want to bring some conclusions, because when I was there, I recorded a couple
 of videos, but it was quite hectic, it was not very well thought through.
 So what do I want to say today?
 First of all, let me tell you about Sri Lanka and the whole atmosphere, the spiritual and
 religious atmosphere.
 It is not a healthy one.
 There is no place on earth that's healthy, but in Sri Lanka, in such countries as Sri
 Lanka, also similar to Bali, I've been to Bali, maybe it's also Hinduism there.
 In Sri Lanka it's mainly Buddhism, but it's like a different style of Buddhism, it's like
 this Sri Lankan culture, and it is much worse than even here in Taiwan.
 We have also, 97% here are pagans, also supposedly Buddhists, but it's more pagans.
 And there are also about 95-97% Buddhists and Hindus.
 And there it's much worse, because people are worshipping all these idols everywhere
 all the time.
 You hear all these sounds of this different, I don't know, I can't call it prayer, it's
 some kind of sound, mantra, you smell everywhere, some kind of sacrifices are being brought
 to demons.
 You see these demonized people right on the street, or people with some problem, they
 cannot control themselves.
 It's quite unhealthy overall, and suicides here and there, and the whole atmosphere is
 very unhealthy, it's not just socially problematic place, but spiritually.
 Even though it's a beautiful country, it's a wonderful country, and the people when they
 believe in the Lord, they are wonderful people.
 Just on this individual human level, you can talk to them, you can make friends with them,
 I mean they are wonderful people, I don't want to accuse the people, but I can say that
 generally this spiritual-religious atmosphere is very hostile to the Lord and to the person.
 Much worse than here.
 The preaching of the Gospel there is going in a very difficult, rather difficult way.
 If we are talking about Sri Lanka, it's much closer to Europe, to other countries where
 Christianity has been for thousands of years.
 To Russia you have direct flight to Moscow, you have other countries who are supposedly
 Christian, like in Africa we have Ethiopia and other places which have a great number
 of Christians.
 Sri Lanka is not far, and it was colonized by British or supposedly Christians, Protestants,
 but still there is almost nothing Christian there.
 And the Orthodox mission there, it's in infancy, it's almost just beginning now.
 And we have some Catholics in Sri Lanka, but it's like an enclave in the north of Colombo,
 I think it's for historical reasons that the Portuguese came there and they've done some
 work maybe in that area, and we have quite a lot of Catholics on the seashore villages.
 But all of that is not really... there is not much influence.
 The Catholic mission there, I haven't noticed it anywhere else in other parts of the island.
 But who is quite active are sects basically, like Protestant-type sects.
 I don't think they're like Protestants really, because it's more charismatic and divided
 from any traditional Protestant denomination.
 So very often it's some kind of... just believe whatever you like.
 You think this is right, this works, this is it.
 You believe dancing works, you do dance.
 You believe chasing demons, you chase demons.
 You believe this, you believe that, rock and roll, whatever you want.
 Just have the Bible and Alleluia and everything else, just do it your way.
 And this creates great heretic, sect-type worship practices.
 And these groups are very active mission-wise, however with not too much success.
 It's still less than a percent of the population who are accepting Christianity, even though
 it's very active, it's everywhere.
 But it's quite not that successful, less successful even than in India.
 So this is the situation there.
 And the mission that we do, the Orthodox mission, is most successful with these groups, with
 these kinds of groups.
 Because these groups are not dependent that much on some other bigger entity, like Presbyterians
 or Lutherans, so they are not being financed by those big churches and controlled strictly
 what they're supposed to do and how they should teach and stuff like that.
 So they're looking for various things.
 Some people are egoistic and just look for things they like, but others they are pious
 and they're looking for the truth and they find the truth in the Orthodox Church.
 So they decide to become Orthodox, together with all the parishioners, all the communities.
 And that's how we had a good start in the middle of the island.
 One pastor, he converted, the whole family and the whole community that they had.
 And also he introduced Orthodoxy to different other pastors across the country and to other
 influential leaders in the society, the community leaders.
 And they also decided to become Orthodox and the mission expanded rapidly.
 So the Orthodox mission there is expanding and is growing.
 It's been more than half a year that we took it to this level.
 Now there are youth groups, there is educational programs, and many other things.
 We're hoping to do also some rescue programs because people are short on supply.
 I think you've heard prices went up and the economy is really doing bad.
 Gas is either expensive or not available at all.
 So we're hoping to do it soon also.
 So it's growing.
 What I can say about this mission is that now so many people are willing to become Orthodox
 that it's just a matter of how much you are willing to receive and able to receive.
 In many countries like Taiwan or in Mexico or Mariana Islands, you're going everywhere
 trying to have people interested but nobody is interested.
 You want to receive someone but nobody, very few individuals here and there.
 But Sri Lanka is the other way around.
 You come to many places.
 Now I'm talking about Orthodox development, I'm not talking in general, I'm talking about
 our Orthodox mission.
 You're coming and people are willing.
 They see, yes, this is truth, this heresy, this act that we believed has problems.
 We want to have truth and the Kingdom of Heaven, not as we see it, but as it is in reality.
 We want to be with the Lord, united.
 And it's just a matter of whether you go there and you make them Orthodox and you take care
 of their future spiritual life.
 So it's really a pain for us not to have enough missionaries and enough people doing mission,
 willing to do mission.
 And this is why I want to read today's gospel, actually.
 Today we have the gospel of Matthew chapter 10 verse 37, beginning from 37.
 The Lord said, "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me.
 And he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
 And he that taketh not his cross and followeth me is not worthy of me.
 He that findeth his life or his soul shall lose it.
 And he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it."
 This is the answer, because we are not willing to sacrifice anything for the Lord.
 We are only caring, this is natural for us from childhood.
 We care about our future and my hobbies, my interests, my desires, my health, my friends,
 my career, everything.
 Everything is around me, my world, my family, it's all around me.
 And when the Lord comes into our life, we need to make a choice.
 Are we ready to sacrifice many of these things for his name's sake?
 Are we willing to break this comfortable world that we live in, to be with him, not to follow
 our own plan, but to follow him?
 Because otherwise, what can we bring to the people in all these different countries, villages
 far away?
 We can just bring what, dogma, or just a book, Bible, believe this and go.
 This is nothing.
 We need to share true faith.
 What does it mean to sacrifice yourself, to follow Christ, to change your whole direction
 of your life, of your soul, to care about the kingdom of heaven first and foremost?
 This is a great sacrifice and great change that we are not willing to do.
 We think that it's going to be painful and harmful and we're going to lose everything
 and so on.
 And this is true.
 It's not going to be easy and we are going to lose it, but we are going to receive the
 treasures of the kingdom of heaven and the Lord himself and live with him and his kingdom,
 which demands great sacrifice from us.
 Let us think deeply about these things.
 There are people out there willing and craving to receive the word of God and here are us
 lazy, selfish, and incapable of bringing any fruits for the world and what kind of mission
 are we talking about?
 We're not going to have any mission.
 And some people will say, well, it's actually not so easy, it's not so.
 We don't have a mission there.
 We don't have anyone go there because these people, they just want money.
 They follow whoever gives them more money, they will follow them.
 Well, this is partly true, but not with everyone because majority of the people there, they
 don't care about money so much.
 They don't care about money more than about truth.
 I saw it.
 I saw these people, I've met with them.
 So whenever they find the truth, I'm sure they are willing to die for it, to sacrifice
 everything for it.
 Not everyone, but many.
 Some other people say, okay, well, it's their family, they become all Christians because
 or some group, some sect, because their family is like this, they also just born in this
 family.
 No, I also saw many people, for example, there was a girl about 14 years old and she was
 the only one who believe in Jesus Christ, in her whole big family.
 And they have tremendous pressure because everybody says, you are not pious, you're
 betraying your clan, your family, your ancestors, you don't want to follow us and worship this
 Buddha thing, but she is willing to go through all this humiliation, all the pain because
 of broken relationship with the gates.
 She doesn't have any support, any care almost from these relatives.
 So it's a path of a martyr, passion bearer.
 So there are people like this and quite many.
 So don't think that it's all, oh, there are some other reasons why they are not Orthodox.
 There are reasons for that is because the Lord doesn't allow them.
 Or maybe because they love this sects, they love dancing, so they have this dancing in
 the church.
 They love charismatic stuff, so they have this charismatic church's sects.
 This is also wrong.
 Many of those people, they are not arrogant heretics, they are humble people who are looking
 for truth.
 And as soon as they know the truth, the true worship, the true faith, they receive it with
 their whole heart.
 So this is also, this is just an excuse for us.
 Some people have this as an excuse, the excuse for laziness, for just caring about ourselves,
 for just not going anywhere, just staying on the, at home, nice, nice food, everything
 safe.
 Me, my salary, my family, everything is by going by the plan.
 Yes, I'm Orthodox.
 Yes, I am a priest or yes, I'm a bishop, but it's everything is my safe way and it's all
 running well and it's so nice.
 This is not real Christianity, this is my life, okay?
 You created your life, you care about your life, but the Lord, whoever saves his life,
 he will lose it.
 You need to break this and be ready to go and do whatever the Lord will tell you to
 do.
 This is the big demand.
 So I am really afraid of what the Orthodox, many Orthodox are going to hear when they
 meet with the Lord, that they could do many, many things, but they chose some values on
 this of this world, rather than treasures in heaven.
 They've neglected the treasures in heaven for the sake of this world.
 Let us pray that this problem can be overcome, that we can change ourselves, have a big tremendous
 change going on in us, in our hearts, in our life, including me.
 I am not different than you.
 I have also many limitations like this.
 So all of us, we need this saving power of the Lord's resurrection to transform our hearts
 and our minds to become his disciples, his true disciples, and to bear this witness of
 his resurrection and love.
 May the Lord help us and give us his wisdom and his guidance.
 Amen.
 God bless.
 And also very soon I will go on another mission.
 I will tell you later what this mission is going to be.
 It's another island.
 And I ask you for the prayers of every mission incentive that we do.
 And very soon you will know what that mission is.
 Amen.
 God bless.
