 Dear brothers and sisters, very soon I will go to the mission and I will have my videos about the mission mainly.
 But before this, I want to share my overall feeling about what is happening in the world and with the Church.
 Because the reason why the world still exists is because of the Church.
 The Lord cares about the Church and everything is related to it, to His plan on this Earth.
 So, because if we just talk about, we come in this place, we have this activity, we have mission, we have this,
 this might seem as if we are in some tower, we are talking about something away from the real world.
 But it is important that as the Lord knew what was happening in this world, He knew all the problems of this world.
 We also should know what is going on and what are the risks, even though this is not the most important thing for us.
 In following Christ this is not the most important. This relates to everyone around us, our relatives, friends, parishioners in our Church.
 Everyone. And also by understanding what is happening in the Church, we know better where we invite people.
 When we do mission, come to the Church. But people should not think that it is some rosy picture, it is some heavens.
 It won't be heavens. It will be still people who try to be with the Lord, but very often they fail.
 St. Nicholas of Serbia, he said that in the early Church, among the faithful it would be an exception if you are not holy,
 if you don't have a holy life. But in the last times, in the end of times, it will be the opposite.
 Among the faithful it will be an exception if you are a holy person, if you have a holy life.
 This is the time where we live. And when we live, we see this. And this doesn't mean that the Church is fake or that the Lord is away.
 No, or He is weaker. His power is the same. And we are able to gain as much grace in the Church as He can give us all the time.
 If we open our hearts, if we can accept such grace. So the problem is in us, not in the Lord.
 So don't be disappointed if you see that the Church today is not in every respect as strong, as powerful, as spiritual as the Church in the time of, I don't know, ecumenical councils.
 We see, let's come back to the world, what's happening, because I want to tell you a little bit about this war that's going on.
 How does this relate to the big picture? You know which war I mean.
 The first thing I want to say is that all of us are as humanity. Now we are weaker, we are sick, and we are sleeping spiritually.
 Including most of the Christians and also Orthodox. For example, just compare some students who studied, say, in university 200 years ago.
 Like those graduates in universities, in top universities in, say, Germany or Russia. And the graduates today.
 Or in any country. You'll see that they know ten times, I don't know, a hundred times more than the people who graduate now.
 They have their goals, their vision, they can think independently. But now what? It's just a bunch of teenagers who cannot do much.
 Except maybe very few who are super outstanding, but even they are weaker in the way they live, in the way they behave in many ways. Why we don't have great philosophers now?
 We don't have great composers, Mozart, Bach. Where are they? Even look at politicians today and 70 years ago. Compare Johnson and Churchill.
 Or US presidents. Or anyone. We see that it's all going down like that. It becomes just a joke.
 And even among younger people, we see that they are unable to study, unable to do things. They depend all on their parents and moral values also go down.
 So in many ways we can see that now the times are not good in terms of just the strength, what people can do, what they are capable of doing, their moral levels, their intellectual power, their independence.
 Everybody wants to think what they are told in the news or in the social media where they sit. Manipulation is much easier now.
 So we can also compare in the Church. We have the time of the Holy Fathers and that was till the 7th/8th century. And then it's over.
 We have some outstanding theological thinkers but it's still not as bright as it used to be during the time of the Holy Fathers. Why is that? Well, different epochs. There wasn't one epoch, there's another one.
 It's sort of getting weaker. Even stronger theologians. We don't have many right now, like outstanding theologians, not like even 50 years ago.
 So in many ways the Church is also getting weaker. The level of the priesthood, the level of the bishops, it's all getting somewhat weaker.
 And eventually the testimony about Christ is becoming weaker. But I don't want to be that pessimistic.
 We understand the great big tendencies, what's going on in terms of tendencies. But we also can see that in every generation there are saints.
 There are people who are outstanding who become saints in whatever environment they are, in whatever country they are.
 It's Orthodox country, it's pagan country, it's Muslim country. But if they are Orthodox they can become saints. And we have many of those.
 This means that on the individual level you and I and every single person can go against this tendency. We don't have to follow in the big trend.
 And as we will see the Antichrist himself, he doesn't fall into those trends. He's called the genius of geniuses. And he is going to trick everybody.
 But that's another question, I will come back to it. We can also see, you see, when the organism is weaker, what happens? The sickness breaks through.
 So this war that we have now, it's actually this kind of sickness that broke through because of our weakness. We got weaker and this war broke through.
 This is just a notion of our sickness, spiritual. And it's not that Russia and the Ukrainians are more sick than others. It's just the devil in his plan now to have the war break out there.
 And he can do it elsewhere, whenever he wants, whenever he has a plan, and whenever the God allows.
 We see that even Christians, what can be more pleasant to the devil when Orthodox are killing Orthodox? I mean, what greater joy can he have than seeing that the church is destroying itself, just killing itself?
 So it happens that this task, that he is like a lion walking around and looking for a way to seize those who are chosen, the prey, and to kill it.
 That it's not that difficult. It happens to be not that difficult for him to reach that goal.
 How does that happen? What's the mechanism?
 Well, you see, whenever political issues, or some ideological issues, or some fake patriotism, or even you're persuaded that you need to protect the church and Christianity and Christian values, some of those things, some kind of thinking is implanted into your head.
 Slowly. Because there is some empty space there. It's not Christ that is in your heart. It's not that you think about how to serve Christ the best, in the best way.
 All of us, most of us are like this. That we are concerned with anything but Christ. Christ is always there.
 Of course we are Christian. Anytime we can go to church. The Kingdom of Heaven, it doesn't run anywhere. It's going to be there waiting for us.
 But now we do this, we do this, we have a goal, a career, this interest. And we, as Orthodox, also get immersed in these worldly concerns.
 And then this logic of this world is guided in such a way that at some point somebody gives us the machine gun and says, "Okay, now you go and you need to kill that because he's a bad guy."
 And what? And you have no choice already. Why? Because you were asleep, or all this time, spiritually.
 And this is why we have these things happen. Because for myself, I've been to the war, to this war, when it began, in 2014, '15, '16.
 I've been there many times, so it's not from the news that I'm telling you this, from somebody else's stories.
 I've been there, I know what it is. I saw it's a big lie on both sides.
 And while people go and kill each other, somebody behind the scenes is happy, he's super glad that this is going on.
 And he's willing to have it as long as needed.
 So, what kind of examples? We have plenty of examples. We have plenty of examples, beginning from the Old Testament, that people were sleeping, and then eventually they worship Baal, and then the grace of the Lord is departing.
 And then comes the Babylonians, and they kill, and they destroy the temple, and put everybody to slaves.
 Only just some prophets, they're still crying and saying, "Guys, you need to repent."
 Then we have with the church, we have the whole western part of the church, Orthodox.
 Sleeping, sleeping, now it's called Dark Ages. You sleep in darkness, because that's all Dark Ages.
 Sleeping, sleeping, sleeping, and then just split away into heresy, become Roman Catholic.
 Then we have Orthodox back in Russia, Orthodox, sleeping, sleeping, in the 16th century, and then we have the big schism, in the 17th century.
 Also great stress for the church, many people split away, the church becomes weaker, and more embraced with the government, more controlled by the government.
 Then we have also sleeping, sleeping, then Napoleon comes, and we have another big hit.
 Then we have all the 19th century also sleeping, sleeping, and eventually we have this Bolshevik revolution, and all these communists, Marxists, socialists, they destroy the faith, they almost destroy the church, also as a result of this sleeping.
 Then we have this sleeping during the 20th century, and then the devil divides Russians and Ukrainians, and this is also the origin of this war.
 And also then Perestroika, that opens all the churches, everybody falls asleep, and only builds these churches, and then eventually the doctrine of consumerism.
 Just buy for yourself all this free market economy, this thing comes, and nobody notices, "Oh, we live in a different world." Why? Because you are sleeping.
 And now the next level, this sickness is breaking out, it's the sickness of Antichrist, apostasy.
 And eventually now we have this war broke out, and everybody thinks, "Oh, it's some politicians, some individuals, they are making it, they are doing it, or it's some secret government or something else."
 The great problem is not that all of a sudden we will have somebody come and stamp our hand and say, "Now worship Antichrist," and we don't notice it. No.
 We don't notice big things, which I have listed just now. The whole world falls into these traps, spiritual traps, because of this sleep.
 And same with other nations. We have Greeks for Orthodox, also sleeping 20th century comes this American post-modernism, post-Christianity, and now nobody goes to church.
 All the young people, they are out, they hate anything related to church. Why? Why? We are all Orthodox, we don't have any prosecution or anything else, but nobody comes to church.
 Why? Because you were sleeping, and the young people, they were brainwashed. And of course, even worse happens in the rest of the world, the post-Christian world.
 So, we need to know why this happens, and what is going on. We need to pray that at least us, ourselves, we are not falling asleep.
 People around us, they can awake, and it's a good opportunity if we have a war. And this war influences the whole world. We have the energy prices, the food prices, everything go up.
 People need to begin thinking, at least now, waking up. So, let us pray that the Lord may save us from all this evil.
 It will not happen just by itself. Unless we, every, each and every one of us wakes up, then we will have the ability to withstand all this evil, and to do the testimony for Christ.
 And those people who will be converted as a result of the mission, they will come to a healthier church, they will see that people here, they are living with the truth, and not with some political agenda.
 When we have now everybody polarized, you are either pro, you're contra, they come to a church like this, they say, what kind of church is this? This is just some people, same as us.
 No, we have to be with the Lord, and not with some political agenda, some propaganda, no matter how convincing it sounds.
 May the Lord give us strength, give us wisdom, love towards everyone, and strong faith to serve Him and to overcome all deception of the devil and me. God bless.
