 Dear brothers and sisters, today I'm on the Austral Islands, the island of Tubuai,
 and today is the first day that I have a mission success.
 And this made me inspired to record this video because without any mission success, you don't
 really want to record the videos, you know?
 Because it becomes like, you know, like a tour guide, OK?
 Just tell you, OK, I come here like tourists.
 I see this, I do this.
 And this is like only for media sharing, which is, in my view, it's pointless because maybe
 for some young people, they want to share where they go and stuff like that.
 But for me, to preach the gospel is the goal.
 So my focus during all these days after my arrival to Polynesia was the real mission,
 OK?
 What can I do to really develop the mission here, OK?
 And when you're focused on something like this, you don't really have time and I don't
 really have that drive to record, OK, this is this, this is that, OK?
 Because this is not my point.
 And if the whole mission is a failure, OK, you come and nothing, OK, then all these videos
 is pointless, right?
 So this is why this is the first video that I record in some more detail.
 Today I want to say not about the success that I have, well, not I, it's many people
 who contribute to this and the Lord made this happen, OK, it doesn't come from us.
 And I was telling to everyone that without a special providence, the special miracle
 from the Lord, we will not be able to do anything here.
 It's not going to work.
 But today I feel that the Lord has done that miracle.
 And I will tell you about this in one of the subsequent videos.
 Today I want to share about what is going on, what Polynesia is all about, OK, the people,
 the culture, well, at least the overall impression, OK, I cannot tell you everything, right?
 But just what happened, what did I see, OK, why did I come here, OK, this island of Toubouai.
 OK, first of all, I was, I didn't know much about Polynesia before coming here.
 For me, Polynesia was like just some dots on the map in the Pacific Ocean.
 OK, I've heard about Tahiti, OK, Tahiti, Tahiti.
 And I didn't know what it's like, OK, being honest.
 And I thought it's less developed because it's like far away, right?
 Because further out you have only Easter Island close to Argentina, to Chile, to South America,
 which is almost no people there, right?
 So this is the populated place which has people and which is like further away from everywhere
 else, in Oceania.
 So I thought it should not be too much developed, OK?
 But I was wrong, OK, I came to Tahiti and it's almost like part of France or United
 States, something, some mixture, Hawaii.
 It's a small version of France, OK, because you see Europeans like everywhere and everybody
 speaks French, OK, and you've got high-end boutique shops, organic stores, you name it,
 OK, you have everything there.
 Well, not everything, everything, but it's not like Aboriginal, far away island, OK?
 It's just far away, like physically, but it's highly developed and it's very much tourist
 oriented.
 So the more than half of people in Papé Ité, that's the capital, it's pronounced in French,
 I guess, Papé Ité, OK, and in Papé Ité you have more than half of the people on the
 street, non-locals, OK?
 Well, maybe some of them were born in Tahiti, but they are not the Polynesians, right, they're
 white, they're descendants of Europeans, French, British, German, all kinds of nationalities,
 but they are Tahiti born, OK?
 So you don't really feel that you are in Polynesia, being honest, like in the Papé Ité, and it's
 like traffic jams, OK, there, so it's not some far away place, you don't feel that,
 and it's very much saturated that people don't really, they saw everything, OK, people who
 live there, they saw everything, they see missionaries, preachers from all over the world, all kinds
 of sects, religions, all come there and try to do some mission there, so people don't
 really want to deal with it, OK?
 Like overall attitude, people don't care, OK?
 People care about shopping, eating, making money, OK, so you need a different strategy.
 To do mission in Tahiti, you need to come there and live there many years, OK, develop
 relationship with people, and they slowly learn who you are, what you preach, what the
 difference is, you make friends, OK, slowly, slowly, like Taiwan, OK, like Mariana Islands
 maybe, something like this.
 It's not that you're coming on the street, and you know, like in Timor-Leste or in Papua,
 New Guinea, OK, and now 1000 people want to convert, OK, it's not working that way.
 So after doing mission in Papeete for a few days, I felt that OK, it's not working the
 way I hoped.
 I went to another place, I gave you like one video with a view, that's Moria Island,
 and I went there, I went around the island, it's pretty much, it's almost like Tahiti,
 as developed as Tahiti, maybe just a little bit less busy, but still very developed, OK?
 And same feeling, OK, pretty much the same feeling that I had in Papeete, so I came back
 and I had a thought that, well, actually the next day, one lady, she took me around the
 island of Tahiti on a car, OK, so I saw the whole Tahiti and the little attachment, like
 a little piece of Tahiti island, it's called Tahiti Iti, small Tahiti, we went like everywhere,
 I saw tourists everywhere, commercialized everything, OK, so the feeling, and not much
 people on the street, so you know, the feeling is OK, yes, we need to do mission here, but
 it's not gonna work that fast, OK?
 So I had a feeling that maybe I need to go to at least one other place, one other remote
 island of this French Polynesia area, OK?
 Just to check, just to see how different it is, OK, what we have there, and maybe there
 is some mission opportunities there, and maybe we need to go there now, because later it
 will be as developed as Papete and Moere, so maybe it's time to go, and the only two
 places I could fly, because you need to fly, it's far, was here, Dubois, and another atoll
 in northeast, right, from that Tahiti island, which was close, and also tourist area, so
 I decided to come here, and that was the right choice, OK?
 This place is about 1000 kilometers, it's an hour and 40 minute flight south from Papete,
 and it is a less developed place, even though it's also, it's not wild, OK, you don't see
 like tribes over here and people like in the tribe, it's got nice roads, OK, we had a tour
 around the island today on bikes, and this place has no tourists, almost, OK, the whole
 island, it's got a population of 2000 plus, like a small village, and it's got maybe 5
 to 10 tourists, OK, now, OK, the whole island, so this is what I wanted, it's very calm,
 you can see I'm on a beach, and this is the main hotel here, and there is no people, OK,
 no people, and almost no cars, it's really a quite nice place, in that sense, if you
 wanna do like a resort, like a retreat, pray, OK, calm down, this is a good place to come
 and to do this, so this is it, this is it, and it proved right, and the Lord made it
 happen, OK, the mission now has a great achievement here, and I will tell you about this achievement
 in one of the following videos, thank you very much for prayer, please keep praying
 for this mission, please keep praying, pray for all people who helped this mission, I
 want to thank everyone who made this possible, it is not because of me, because of all of
 the people who contribute, who support the mission, that it's become possible, and glory
 be to God for making it happen, OK, for making this mission successful, so please everyone
 be strong in faith, know that now the Lord is doing his job, he is doing his work, OK,
 it's not that, OK, now the end of the world and we are now just waiting for Antichrist
 and finish, no, now the Lord is spreading his word, his gospel, and we can contribute
 to this project, every one of us, so be strong in faith, be positive, we will be victorious
 with the Lord, may his grace and blessing be upon every one of you, I mean, God bless.
