 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am still on the island of Tubuai and today I want to
 share with you on the practice how we do mission, what kind of materials do I have with me to
 do mission, what kind of attitude, strategy, mindset. Because in the past I was doing mission
 more based on a regular logic, you know. And this logic we can say it's a carnal logic,
 we are carnal people. And the apostle Paul tells us that we need to become spiritual
 and a spiritual person does things in a different way than a carnal. So of course I cannot say
 that I am spiritual and that I am some special saint or prophet or apostle, no. But still
 we can learn, we can try to have logic coming from the Lord, coming from the gospel that
 would help us. So I want to share with you that I have some changes to the way I am doing
 mission. Do you remember the story of the Samaritan woman? She was near the well and
 the Lord came to Samaria, He came to that well and He spoke with this woman and there
 was a profound change in her life and she discovered that He is Messiah and she went
 and preached and the whole town came to see Him. So the Lord, He did not go to the town,
 He did not try to preach to as many people as He could. And He was not rushing. He came
 there, He spoke with her maybe for a few hours, we don't know how long. But it was quite a
 natural occasion, He was thirsty, He came, but it was a supernatural encounter. So in
 a similar way, in the past I had this feeling about probability. There is a high probability
 that I can meet some people in the big market, in the shopping center, many people. And I
 distribute more brochures and I can talk to more people and I can do more, I can use my
 time efficiently. And I should not waste time for some things that are slow, for long conversations
 with somebody, maybe it's useless. Or to walk on a street which has no people or somewhere
 that has no people or few. So I had that logic. Every time I rent a car, I drive, I use my
 time as efficiently as possible. This time I don't do that. This time I decided that
 it's all in the Lord's hands and just trust Him, that He will arrange whatever has to
 happen will happen. I just need to do something in terms of the mission. I cannot just stay
 at home and rest and do nothing, of course, this is not a vacation. I need to do things
 but this should be more natural. I should trust the Lord more. And this is why sometimes
 I use hours for a conversation with someone. I go to places which don't have much people.
 Like here you walk on the street, you meet maybe one person in half an hour. That's okay.
 Use walking, don't rush. And this is what I do. And today I want to introduce what kind
 of material am I using for the mission. I'm going around in the priest castle so that
 people know that it's a priest. Or maybe go on a bike just in regular cloth. Well, not
 like a sports cloth. It should be more formal. Like a t-shirt. Sorry, not a t-shirt, maybe
 a shirt. And long sleeves are better. It should be more formal. And I take with me this stuff.
 So when I meet with someone and there is some kind of conversation, depending on what kind
 of conversation it is, I would give them some material. The most basic one I'll tell you.
 The most basic one is this missionary brochure that we bring. This brochure is in French.
 Maybe next time we'll do also inteition in the local language. People read it here. And
 this brochure has photos, it has a very simple introduction about the Orthodox faith, how
 it's true, like the other is false, why. Something about history. We see that the church is 2000
 years old. It was established by Christ himself. Exists from the time of the apostles. The
 other Catholic and later Protestant, they split away. Why they split away? It explains
 all of it in a simple language. We can see here what is Catholic, what is Orthodox. They
 split Eastern Europe. Here the faith is coming mainly from France and Protestantisms from
 the UK. They can see that it's coming from the Catholic side. But there is the Orthodox
 and it's authentic, it's true. So this is what we're bringing here. So it's got some
 pictures that I can just use to explain. Without them having to read it through, right away,
 if there is this kind of conversation, I can tell, see the tree of life, this is the church.
 If you're away, it's not enough just to believe in Christ. You have to be attached, connected
 to this tree to receive the true life from the Lord. It's got the back contacts, website,
 my name. Some people just say here me, this is me. If you want to contact, just add me
 on WhatsApp or Viber. So it has everything. And depending on the kind of conversation
 we have, I can tell them more. I can tell them about, I can give them some gifts. And
 what I've got? I've got here the icon of the Lord. Just have a lot of them and theotokos.
 And they would see, they can put it in their house and pray. Some people don't read, you
 just give them something. Also for special occasions, I have bigger icons, like a more
 serious gift, like this. It's a bigger one. So I have a couple of those and maybe a couple
 of bigger, even yet bigger, you see, like this. So this is for a special gift, the person
 who is like really interested or who is very friendly and really wants to have some connection
 with us. Give him some extra things that he can put in his house and pray. Also, for some
 people who maybe who are Protestants, who don't understand the idea of the Holy icon,
 I can just give the prayer robe. Or Catholics also, they know what it is. It's similar to
 Rosary in some way. It's also from Russia. I'm coming from Russia, so far away. So for
 them to have something from Russia that they can use for prayer might work. At some point
 they might be moved and might decide to become Orthodox. And also we've printed some books.
 This time we have two books in French, which would help them in this search for faith.
 We don't give out gospels now or New Testament because they can buy it in a shop, in a store,
 and we don't have our own translation. So what we have is, we have this. This is 300
 maxims, 300 sayings of holy fathers of the desert that could help in spiritual life in
 prayer. So I can give it to people who believe in God. Maybe some heresy, some sect, something
 else, even like Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses. So we can give this to them. Because you can
 say you want to have some connection with God, try this. Later they can see, they can
 read it. If they like it, they might begin to think who wrote it. And these are Orthodox
 saints. So maybe what they see here is much more precious than what they hear in their
 sect. So at some point they might think, oh, well, maybe it's the Orthodox Church that
 has the truth and they'll find it. So I have more of these books because this I can give
 to anyone. Even to people who are not yet interested in Orthodoxy, but just have some
 serious thought about God and prayer. And another book is more specialized. I have less
 of these. These are for people who are already interested in understanding what is Orthodoxy.
 So this would tell them the difference. Orthodox, how is it different from Catholic, Protestant
 and Monophysite, those Coptic, Ethiopian, these ancient heresies. So this book is also
 quite useful, short, simple. It's not some high level theology, but it has the main things,
 the most important things. So this is another. And it's a small light. I can carry a few
 of them with me. So it's quite convenient. So this is what we have. Maybe next time I'm
 thinking of translating something else to a notation or to print a notation gospel,
 to distribute the gospel here. So these are our plans. These are my thoughts for the future.
 And I have my water with me again. So in case I need it. The most important is the water
 of life. That the faith brings the true faith in the Lord. And I hope that more people can
 know about it. I also suggest you think about a mission, becoming a missionary at some point.
 It's not something super difficult. You don't have to wait until you become a saint. Okay.
 Holy father, apostle. No, no. Just have a trust in what you do, in the mission, in the
 work of the Lord. Fight with the passions, with everything that's evil in you and ask
 for the Lord. Ask the Lord for this drive, this motivation and the blessing. Get a blessing
 from a priest. Okay. And just do it. Okay. Just do it. Okay. So please pray for the mission
 here, for the mission everywhere in Polynesia, in Oceania, in Taiwan, so that we can have
 success. And the fruits of the Lord's work may multiply, may grow. Thank you very much
 and God bless everyone. Amen.
