 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to share with you my overall feeling about mission in Polynesia.
 Now the mission is over, this mission trip. I hope it is just the first trip for preparation for the future mission.
 It is difficult to expect big results just from one visit.
 And the worst outcome that we can have is nobody wants anything, no interest in the mission, in the church.
 And I went to some places before that have nothing, like no results. You do a lot of mission work, but no results completely.
 Well, at least no evident results. Maybe after 20 years there will be some fruits, but it is not evident.
 So you don't really feel like going there again.
 On the opposite side there are some missions where you have thousands, maybe hundreds of people.
 And all of them are willing to become Orthodox Christians and you are feeling super encouraged and you want to do more.
 You want to come there again, develop this mission.
 Polynesia is somewhere in the middle.
 We have some fruits already from this first trip, which give me motivation for future development of this mission.
 Before telling you about these fruits, I want to say a few words about the Polynesia overall, the French Polynesia and mission overall in this region.
 This is the biggest part of the Pacific. We know the Pacific has Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia.
 But Polynesia is the biggest chunk. It has more than 1000 decent sized islands.
 Not counting those small small micro islands. And more than 1000. And it includes 6 countries and 9 territories.
 It is either part of some other country like Hawaii or American Samoa, Easter Island.
 So it has 6+9, it has 15 sort of countries. Not all of them are countries.
 Like French Polynesia is part of France. But you get there, you feel like it is a country.
 So it has 15 of those. And French Polynesia is only one out of these 15.
 Some of them already have Orthodox presence, Orthodox nation like New Zealand, Hawaii, I think Vanuatu, Fiji also have.
 But most of those places, they don't have anything yet. This is the most difficult part of the world to reach.
 It is far away. It is far away from places where you have strong church presence.
 It is far away. And also those islands are far away from each other.
 So not many people go there and ready to preach there, to live there. It is a different world.
 So if we want to do the mission that the Lord gave us, we have to think about Polynesia.
 About Oceania, about French Polynesia is something to consider.
 We cannot just do everything everywhere at the same time. Our mission, resources, people, it is all limited this time.
 And we need to focus on something. I think we can focus on French Polynesia.
 French Polynesia has 121 islands, a decent sized island, of which 75 islands are inhibited.
 So if we preach there, we need to preach on those 75 islands, at least.
 And this time I went to four of those islands. I have an impression about different types of islands now.
 The biggest is Tahiti, and there are mid-sized islands, more developed, less developed, have smaller islands, far away islands.
 So if you decide to go to such places as French Polynesia to preach, you need to love that place.
 You need to be ready for the challenge. It is a big challenge.
 Those different islands spread. French Polynesia itself is spread to a territory the size of Europe, big. Spain to Denmark.
 It is a big, big place. It is a big place and it does not have buses, railroads, trains.
 It only has, you can go by ship, which is tough. You get busy, it storms a lot.
 And you have a plane, so you go by plane, which is expensive and it is also not easy to cover such a great area.
 And not always you have plane, not all the islands have, you know, air drones, airports, no.
 So you need to be ready for the challenge, but you need to love that place.
 I think it is like the stars that are spread in the heavens. You look at the stars, they are magnificent, they are mysterious.
 They are separate from one another, like those islands. They are pretty much, every island is a small little universe.
 Most of the people who live there go somewhere else maybe once or twice in their life. They do not travel a lot.
 So it is like a small, small village, you have got like a few hundred people, or like two thousand people.
 And that is it. It is like that small little village, which does not have any connection to anything else.
 Only by plane, which is like going to a different world.
 So it is not something that you go on a regular basis, like in a regular village, countryside.
 Well, those people, they travel, they go somewhere else often, they have visitors often, but not those islands.
 Those islands are a little universe. Each island is a little world by itself.
 So you need to be willing to go to meet with people, to talk to them, to do the testimony of the Lord's love.
 You need to love these people and you need to be ready for difficult conditions, for lack of everything, no internet, maybe no hot water, mosquitoes and all that stuff.
 So we need missionaries who are ready for that kind of challenge. They will not see their family for years.
 They will live on those secluded, faraway islands and do the mission, maybe sometimes have no financing, have this, have that, have nobody to rely upon, only God.
 So this is a very challenging project.
 But why do I say that I have hope and we have some fruits, even from this first trip?
 This happened on the first of the first mission walk that I've done on that small island of Dubuay.
 In my previous videos I said that Tahiti is a very difficult place for the mission, for developing the mission.
 But once we get to those smaller islands, quite a few people, they want to talk to you, they want to know more and they're open for the mission, for embracing the faith.
 So on that first trip, I met a person, his name is Raya Vera. He is a descendant, grand grandson of King Tamatua.
 He is a king that ruled some of those islands in the past.
 We can read history. He says this King Tamatua, he was very influential and he had a lot of relatives, descendants.
 And most of that island, the Dubuay islands, 2000 people who live there, the vast majority are descendants of Tamatua.
 So apparently it's not so special. But it's interesting.
 He told me about this king, he brought me to the grave of, I think it's the son of the princess of that king, and he told me about history.
 We had maybe two to three hour conversation and he told me about the ship Bounty which came to that island in 1789 and how they began, it's an English ship, they began this communication, trade, development.
 And also the first missionaries, Protestant missionaries who came there.
 And he has a book about one of those missionaries, I think his last name is Williams.
 And he told me about him, that he might be also related to him somehow, because his last name is also Williams, which becomes Viriyamu.
 He changed it. And he also had the Bible. I didn't see Bible in anyone else's hands in the whole Polynesia, all the places I went to.
 So that's quite rare. It was a Bible in Tahitian language.
 So I could see the fruits. He and his family are basically the people who embraced, who received the faith from the Protestant 200 years ago.
 And they also preserve their own culture. It's a little bit like mixed together, Protestantism and their own religion.
 pagan religion, beliefs in shamanism, animism. And it's all mixed together. So there is plenty of work to be done to witness about true faith, about true worship of Christ, the true church.
 So there is a lot of work to do. He himself, he is not ready yet to become Orthodox.
 But he is really eager to help, to help us. He has a very positive feeling about the mission that we do.
 And he has this intuition. And it's not for money. It's not that he's expecting some benefits from us. He took me to, he took me around the island.
 We went on a bicycle trip. It takes about three hours if you ride a bike. Well, it took us a whole day to go around the island. And he introduced me to his relatives, his friends.
 We had a lot of conversations with them. And he was like a bridge. He was like a bridge because people there, they don't really speak English.
 Ray Vere, he studied, he lived in Florida, in the US for like 25 years. He's now 62. But he's not old. He's like very energetic and slim and he goes everywhere.
 Different from majority of the people. People are like slow. A lot of people are big. And they are introverts. They're more suspicious about foreigners.
 They speak French and Tahitian. They don't really speak English. So he helped me to establish this link, this connection with the people there.
 And some of the people, they got interested. I met some people there right on the street who were Mormons and some other sects.
 And we had conversations and there were people who were willing to become Orthodox. It just needs more time, more conversation.
 It needs some presence of our missionary there for at least maybe a few months, a year. Like Apostle Paul, he went, he stayed in Tarsus, in Koryav.
 He stayed for a few months or a few years and established churches there. The same thing has to be done there.
 Missionary comes, he stays, he establishes a church, a local church, maybe a family church. And then he goes somewhere else.
 So this helps. This helps when you have someone to take you, to introduce, to translate.
 And more importantly, he said that he has relatives in many places. He was listening. I have relatives here, there, on those islands, on Marquesas, on Rapa, in Ruto, in many places.
 And I had an idea. Why don't we go together with him to those islands where he knows all those people, his relatives, and we introduce the faith to those people.
 And I told him about this idea. He got excited. He got really excited. He said, yes, I'm willing to go. I'm willing to help. So my thinking is that we need to organize a trip.
 It will be not an easy task. We need a lot of financial support. We need to plan really well. Where do we want to go? We need some time to accomplish these tasks.
 We need many things to make this happen. We need to print some books. I think it would be nice to print the gospel in Tahitian language and distribute it as a gift to those who are willing to talk about Christ.
 People don't have a Bible in their homes. Most of those people, they consider themselves sort of Christian. Some of them, many are sects, Adventists, Jehovah, Witness, other sects.
 But even those sects, they don't have a Bible in their home. So we would do that. We would need a prayer book in Tahitian. And we would go and introduce faith to all those people.
 Let us pray for this. Let us pray that the Lord can send more people, more missionaries willing to develop this mission, willing to go to this edge of the world to bring the true faith and to do the testimony about His love, about His salvation, about the kingdom of heaven.
 And bring these people to true life, to true life in Christ, with Christ. Let us pray about this and that the mission can be developed, can grow, can get stronger.
 May the Lord be with us, give the blessing to every one of you, and protect us from all the evil and from all the temptations. I mean, God bless. Thank you very much everyone who supports the mission, who prays for the mission, and who is listening to our videos. I mean, God bless.
