 Dear brothers and sisters, I came back from Polynesia to this world, and I've been to the United States for a few days, then I came to Canada, now I'm in Canada.
 And I've met with many people, and I see how people look at things, what's going on in this world.
 And I have a little fresh outlook at things, so I wanted to share with you some thoughts about what's going on, on a spiritual level, and how we can face this reality that we're in right now.
 The reality is that it's the dark ages, it's the dark times that we're living in. The world that we're used to being in is being broken, dismantled, and there is an attempt of building a new world.
 And this will be a more anti-Christian world that we see coming up. It will be more or less, democracy of course, it will be in some sense similar to the Orwellian world, George Orwell, and it will be a more anti-Christian world.
 There will be less and less place for Christ, for true Christ in this world. I see some churches being dismantled in downtown Toronto, and all of those images that I see, you know, everywhere you have this anti-Christian propaganda, maybe you know what I'm talking about.
 And all of that is just a sign of what's going on. Today I don't have time to discuss one by one every aspect of this.
 One big aspect is that during the past two and a half years, people were put in fear, they had to submit to some orders, they were hacked.
 This process of hacking humanity was done in stages. We can see even from the Western church, the Roman church, slipping into heresy this process of hacking people.
 Satan is offering something, some concept, some idea, and people take this bite and they enter into this temptation.
 And then it went into stages. At every stage we can also say that there was some providence of God. God allowed that to happen so that we can learn something from that.
 But most people, majority, went into this temptation and got alienated from God further and further away.
 And that's how eventually anti-Christ is going to come when people are going to be too far away from God willingly.
 So what's happening now? After this final, this recent hacking of people, during the last two and a half years, people are able to receive crazy ideas.
 And we see what's going on now with the war, with all kinds of fears that's going on. The fears of hunger, fears of economic collapse, and anything else.
 And people are ready for any kind of message that will be implanted to their head. And the world is going nuts.
 It's now able to receive crazy things that in the past nobody could receive. Nobody could even talk about it.
 You have control of everything you do with all your information stored, medical, biomedical, somewhere. You have your ID, your second identity, avatar, created for you.
 And all of that transhumanism that's coming up. Artificial intelligence replacing many functions of human society and many other things.
 Now people are ready to embrace all of that. And that's going on big time.
 And also people are implanted with those many crazy ideas. People who just yesterday were careful, were cautious about some political decisions.
 Now they are screaming about more weapons, more death, more violence. That has to be done.
 Just within weeks people change completely.
 So all this craze, all this madness is telling us that we are in these dark ages.
 We are in dark ages when people are hacked on a very deep level. Because this intelligence knows what everyone is doing, your preferences, your behavior, your shopping, your interests.
 Almost everything about you. And that you fit into some kind of segment of society that knows exactly how that segment will behave because of your education, your social status, your job, your income, your ethnicity.
 You can calculate, measure you very well.
 And you become a tool, an instrument of that big Leviathan, that big, what the Lord called Prince of this World.
 So now the Prince of this World has got all those ways of controlling and infiltrating in human hearts and human soul, your mind that was never seen before.
 Not even with those totalitarian governments like Hitler, like North Korea or something else. That was nothing compared to what we have now.
 It was just toys compared to this world that's coming up right now. This totalitarian world where people are going to be happy, they will think that they're free, but they will be completely hacked and will be completely part of the whole system.
 We're not there yet. We're not in that world yet. We're going there.
 So during these dark times, what should we do? How should we see ourselves and everything that's going on?
 I think there are three things. First of all, I wanted to say about three things that are important to know about any dark time.
 We had dark times many times. So it's not something new. Now it's on global scale and much more profound, deeper scale than before.
 But we still had similar things before, so we can learn from that. At the time of Golgotha, even in the Garden of Gethsemane, in that dark night, before being crucified, the Lord was praying.
 He was asking God the Father to take this chalice away from him, but God the Father did not respond. He did not do that.
 And later on Golgotha, the Lord, he cried "Eli, Eli, lamah sabachthani?"
 Which means "My God, my God, why did you abandon me? Why did you abandon me? Why have you abandoned me?"
 We see that this is one aspect of dark ages, that it's as though God has abandoned his people.
 And now we see many clergy and priests are also hacked by some ideas.
 And people who are expecting to see, to hear some truth, they hear also similar propaganda that they read in newspapers.
 They see, they hear it from the priests. And people are expecting the Church to be away, separate from the world.
 But this worldliness is as though it's embracing and infiltrating, controlling the Church.
 It could seem at some time that there is no way out. God is not with us. He escapes and everything else is just decided by this loss of this fallen world.
 And that this prince of this world is controlling everything.
 This is similar. Another peculiar aspect is that during this time is the time of completion, is the time of ripening of fruits, including the evil.
 The evil develops to such an extent that it gets to its utmost.
 So we can see with the example of Golgotha, that those Jews who were against God, their hatred and their enmity grew to such extent that they killed the Lord.
 They killed Messiah. This evil in these Roman soldiers, we can see what kind of evil things they've done to the Lord.
 That kind of behavior, that kind of attitude, this is also some maturity of the evil.
 It's getting to such an extent that they are able to do all of that stuff.
 And we know about this completion of times at the time of gospel. Everybody is expecting Messiah.
 And then true Messiah comes. Similar things are happening now.
 So people who just a few days ago, a few years ago, they could think rationally, they could still make their judgment about what's going on.
 Now they are embraced in the overall propaganda, like with Orwell.
 They're embraced in their propaganda and they are propagating this hatred or murders or some kind of agenda.
 This is also some kind of maturity that's going on. This is another trait that we can see now.
 And also the third aspect, maybe much more important for every one of us, is that the time of darkness, time of temptation is also the time when the Lord is granting the wrath of glory to those who withstand those temptations.
 The Lord himself, he was crucified and entered into his glory on Golgotha, on the cross. Same with martyrs.
 They received their pay, their reward from the Lord on the day when they were martyred, when this darkness was sort of closing upon them.
 That's the time when they received this. Same with us now. What we do now, how we withstand all these temptations.
 If we're able to do something for the Lord, we will get great reward from our Lord during this time of trial and darkness and even abandon, abandonness.
 So this is the third and very, very important aspect of the dark times which we're facing right now.
 And having said that, I want to indicate two things that every one of us should focus, in my opinion, in my view, during these dark times.
 We should not be swayed away by this agenda. Economic problems, political, social, spiritual troubles, what's going on, watching news every day, caring about where is Antichrist coming or anything like that.
 We should not be swayed away by this agenda. We should let it go run as it runs when we are not in the position to make big change to the overall or to the whole world.
 But on the micro level, we can do great deal of things. We can change a lot, every one of us.
 So on this micro level, we should focus on our ministry to the Lord. We should focus on what can I do today for the Lord.
 And it may be some very small thing. Maybe it's ministry to my family. Maybe it's my job that I do. Maybe it's some church ministry or mission or studies.
 We should focus on my contribution to the work of the Lord, because we want to be His instruments, not instruments of Devil of Saturn.
 So we need to focus. We need to have this focus. We should not get into despondency, lack of faith, hopelessness.
 No, we are soldiers of Christ and on a daily basis, we need to focus on what we can do for the Lord today, here and now.
 Sacrificing ourselves for others. So this is the first thing which we need to remember.
 Another thing is, there are two things. In order for us to be able to do this, we need to be autonomous, spiritually autonomous and free from this world.
 Not being polluted by this world, not being controlled, determined by this world, despite all the propaganda, all this noise that we see, the influence of people around us.
 No, we need to have Christ in our hearts and He has taught Himself that the Kingdom of God is in you.
 This is a calling. This is how it's supposed to be. That inside us, we have the Kingdom of Heaven, the Kingdom of God.
 So we are autonomous from everything outside. We're autonomous from this control of this world that's trying to control us, if we would have Kingdom of God inside our hearts.
 The problem is that we're not yet dead. We're not there yet. Every one of us is hacked to some extent.
 Please don't think that... I'm talking just about someone else, this doesn't... Myself. I'm hacked. I'm being honest.
 I try to receive the cure, to get healthy, to overcome this consequence of being hacked.
 So we can be either in the state of being hacked and controlled by the virus, by wrong mindset, by psychological trauma, by sins, passions.
 We can be just in that state of being hacked and we've surrendered spiritually. Or we can be in a state of trying to re-revive, trying to put things back together.
 With the Lord's help, with His grace, we are trying to receive this healing.
 To do this, we need to focus on spiritual life. Prayer, fighting with passions, with sin, reading holy fathers, progressing.
 Progressing in spiritual life, in spiritual strength. This is something we need to focus on.
 Only by focusing on these two things we can have a hope of reaching our Lord, of withstanding all the temptation that's going on and receiving the salvation.
 The Lord Himself said that during the time of calling, the time of second coming, there will be two women working in the field. One will be taken, another one will remain.
 That means that it's not enough just to work, just to do things.
 He didn't say one will be in a bar just drinking and doing nothing, and another was in the field working, and the one in the field will say no, both of them were working.
 So it's not enough just to work, just to be concentrated on doing something.
 No, it's important to dedicate everything we do to the Lord, to build with His grace.
 To build with Himself, to prepare everything necessary for Him to build the kingdom of heaven in us, in our hearts.
 We do everything for that, to serve the Church, to be united with the Church, to be united with the body and blood of Jesus Christ.
 And then we will have this salvation. We will be with Him. He will bring us to His kingdom and to His glory.
 Let us put effort into that, not to be polluted, defiled, corrupted by this fallen world, by all the evil, all the hatred, all the brainwashing that's going on in this world.
 May the Lord be with every one of you, and may you get stronger in the Lord with the Lord. Amen. God bless.
