 Dear brothers and sisters, we live in a world that is shaking and if we even compare it to 50 years ago, it seems to be like that time it was much more peaceful, not many revolutions, wars going on.
 Now, especially the last two years, and this year, we have all these sicknesses, the war, risk of famine, economic crisis, the meltdown just happened a few days ago.
 And people are talking about nuclear weapons, using them, and the third world war, some people say it began already, some people say it will begin soon.
 Well, in any case, there is great uncertainty about future and lack of stability.
 How does this relate to our spiritual life, to our faith?
 For many people, it is appealing to separate these two things, to say, well, let's talk about theology, about divine scripture only, about prayer, about these things.
 This is one nice little world out there, and there is this fallen world with its news, with its politics, and it's a completely different thing.
 We don't want to touch it, just let it be how it is, and we just separate ourselves from this.
 This is one extreme, because people forget about the historical importance of the coming of Jesus Christ.
 He came not just to give everyone some teaching and some method for self-purification, sanctity, no, he gave mission to the whole church.
 And this mission involves ministry to the whole world, and changing this world, and being in the center of the history of this world.
 The existence of this world is sort of around the church, because for the Lord, the new Israel, the true people of God, this is what matters to him the most.
 And eventually this world is going to end, and it's all related to our faith, so the history of the world is related to the history of the church, and the life of the church, and the life of every one of us.
 So our personal spiritual life, warfare, is closely related to the overall context, what is happening in this world, what are we facing, what is going on.
 This is why so many Holy Fathers thought about Antichrist, and they have some thinking about history, about these different monarchs.
 And even when the holy people, they write some epistles, or some books, they don't write it just to address the political agenda.
 They write it that it can both address the current problems of this world, and the Christians, those that are faced by the Christians, but they also are useful and relevant for the Christians of any generation, any country, any time.
 So when I'm talking about some current agenda, I'm not trying to be popular and to catch more likes, to be embraced by the political problems.
 If something happens, some war, then I have video and I have more likes, I don't care about these things. But when I consider something that is going on right now in the world, I hope that we can learn something spiritual from what's going on and what we should do.
 That can be applied anytime, so this will not be outdated. Like even the Revelation of St. John, it was written at the time of those prosecutions of Christians, and many of the things that he's writing there is relating to the historical setting of the church of his time.
 But it also relates to any time, to the church, his journey, in any age, in any historical setting.
 So today I want to say something about what we are facing now and what might be happening soon.
 There is a very nice book written by modern Saint Eugene, or Eugenie, Poisilani. He is an Orthodox writer. He lived in the end of the 19th century and the first three decades of the 20th century.
 He was martyred, he was killed by Bolsheviks in 1931.
 And he wrote many books on faith during the time of the First World War, of the revolution in Russia, the Red Terror, and many other terrible events that happened in the Soviet Union in those times.
 And those events, they are parallel in some way to what's happening now.
 So what he wrote gives us a great incentive and great experience of Christian life in times of the troubled world.
 And one of his books, it was written in 1916, is called "In Quietness and in the Tempest."
 It means that we need to be loyal, faithful to the Lord, both in times of peace and in times of war, in times of trouble and tempest.
 For a Christian, it is always war. We don't have time of peace. Spiritual warfare is going on.
 And if you give up, or you find some peaceful way of existence, spiritual tranquility, and everything is fine, no need to pray, no need to fast, everything is smooth.
 That means that you are falling asleep, that you are losing this vigilance and guidance from the Lord.
 And this is the worst thing that can happen with a Christian, especially, because he used to begin waking up, or he woke up, but then he lost it.
 And this spiritual warfare is even more emphasized by the war or by the tempest in this world,
 when we are facing those times of big changes, big strikes that are going on.
 And what's happening now, the world is shaking with the sicknesses, with the wars, especially these last two years, and this year, even more.
 And even greater, bigger turmoil can be expected. Many people are talking about nuclear weapons being used, or third world war.
 And it could be bad, much worse than we have now, much, much worse globally. And we need to be ready for that. We need to be ready for anything in terms of this external war that's going on.
 And even more difficult, the bigger temptation, deception that is coming, is what's going to happen after all this turmoil.
 The Lord said in his prophecy, he said that all these things, the wars, the earthquakes, this betrayal of children by their parents, parents by their children, killing of a civil war.
 All these things, they are beginning of the pain, they are just those pains, the pain that the woman has, that is telling that she is going to have a birth, give birth.
 Those pains. Give birth to what? What is going to be born in this world? Eventually it's going to be the kingdom of antichrist.
 Eventually what they want to build is this joyful new world. And this joyful new world, maybe it's going to be peaceful.
 But it will not tolerate anything related to true Christianity. There will be no place for holiness, for righteousness, for true spiritual freedom.
 It has to be a world of complete belief in the mindset, in the ideology that's going to be behind this new world. Some of you maybe read Orwell 1984.
 That you have to love all this new world. There is no other option. If you are not fitting in it, you will be eliminated. You don't have right to live.
 And this is now the culture of elimination. It's underway. It was always there, of course. Antichrist was trying to eliminate the church in the Roman Empire, in the Bolshevik Soviet Union, in many occasions.
 But the future kingdom of antichrist will be much more comprehensive. And we're going there step by step.
 So, the big thing is that they will try to make you naturally flow into that new world. For example, now, most of people, they rely on the gadgets.
 Always checking the messages, always looking for some news, always having some kind of addiction over the lines of Facebook and many other things.
 This is the important step towards the future linking. It's going to be linked to this overall system. And you will not even imagine how you can live without it.
 It will be something so important for you, so natural to be linked to that new system that you will not be able to sacrifice this for anything. And you will betray your faith and your Christ.
 Otherwise you will be cancelled. You will be cancelled or annihilated physically. Now we see annihilation of people, you say something against, you're cut out from everything and you're against the law.
 There was this movie "Enemy of the State". Maybe you've seen it. It will be much worse. In the future it's going to be much, much worse. They want to make it so natural for you to get in there that you will not think "Oh, this new ideology, this new dictator, I don't want this".
 So, you will want this. It's cancelling countries, cultures, like now everything related to Russia is going to be cancelled.
 Just because some government madness. And otherwise your future is going to be cancelled. You will have no future.
 For example, if you had faith, in the Soviet Union you had no future. If you go to church, if you're a priest, no, you don't have any future. In the 1920s, 30s, they made such a world that there is no future for you.
 If you're a Christian, if you're a practicing Christian, not a hidden one. In the future it's going to be even for the hidden. You will not be able to hide anything, no privacy. Your thoughts, everything is going to be open and known to Antichrist or to this artificial intelligence.
 So this is what is coming and we need to get ready for that. And how do we get ready for that?
 Now we need to understand that two kingdoms are growing, are developing in some sense. Remember Augustine, the city of God, the city of this earth, this world.
 The kingdom of evil.
 It can come in different shapes, different masks, socialism, communism, capitalism.
 Different countries, different ideologies, conflicting, Russians, Ukrainians, East, West, China, whatever, but it's all building up of that new Babylon.
 And there is another world, another kingdom, the kingdom of Jesus, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven that is developing in our hearts, that is also growing.
 We learn from the precious experience, spiritual wisdom of the church that it has accumulated over 2000 years. Our faith becomes stronger. We're cleansed from all the stain and sin and passions that we had, that we still have, because we love Jesus and we love righteousness.
 And for us, when we choose this path, this external kingdom becomes more and more something external, something that we don't like.
 We have no hope in it, in some ideology, in some ethnic thing or some nationalistic thing. No, we don't have hope or great attachment to those things.
 They are either external to us, or they are a domination. If there is sin associated with something, carnal, ideological, spiritual, any kind of sin, passion, anything, we just feel this domination.
 It is like a righteous man or a good, unspoiled child, children, or nice, good, naive, bright children.
 When they hear somebody is swearing, talking about some sin or something, they don't want to be near that thing. They will escape. They will hate listening to that kind of stuff or being any part of it.
 We have to nurture in our hearts the same distinction between our world, our kingdom of heaven, and this external world with all its
 deception, seduction, everything that's related to vainglory, to selfishness, to carnal enjoyment. For us, there is nothing appealing in there.
 This has to become more and more evident for every one of us, day by day. We need to have this vaccine in our hearts, in our minds, against all that stuff. I don't want to use bad words here.
 And how do we reach that? Of course, through prayer, we never give up. We never give up. We never fall and say, "Oh, it doesn't work. Oh, prayer, I am lazy. It's not for me."
 No, we keep praying through the Holy Eucharist, through the Holy Scripture, and the works of the Holy Fathers, Holy people.
 We become more and more attached to this world, linked to the world of Christ. And only like this, in this way, we will be able to avoid that future deception.
 Because it's going to be much, much worse than anything in the past. We remember, just recently, the whole Soviet Union, 99%, everybody, yesterday's Christians, they embraced these new promises of this bright new world that they're going to build through industrialization and all that other stuff.
 It will be the same. 99%, maybe more, of the people are going to embrace this new world that they're planning to build, the world of Antichrist.
 So, let us have this in mind. Let us, on a daily basis, get stronger, achieve victories in this spiritual warfare, and come closer and closer to Jesus Christ, and be ready for anything that's coming.
 This war, this tension, this gap between our kingdom and this external kingdom is going to be more and more evident to us every day, even on the level of heart, not just here, but here also.
 The Christians, the true Christians, there will be tons of fake Christians, but the true Christians are going to be persecuted and squeezed out. And like, you know, when you're in some big corporation, and you are telling truth, and you're not complying.
 Not everybody else is caring about their paychecks, about efficiency, about whatever, but you care about truth. You will be hated by everything, by everyone there.
 Because your paradigm is different from everybody else's paradigm. The same is true for Christians in this new coming world. We are going to be different, radically different, and we will not accept what they are bringing.
 Let us stand in truth. Let us be loyal, faithful to the Lord, no matter whether it's peace, or it's thunder, tempest, no matter what happens. We will be with Him till the end.
 Amen. God bless.
