 Dear brothers and sisters, this world is slipping into chaos.
 Just few days ago we heard about partial mobilization in Russia, which means that the war between
 Ukraine and Russia is going to get worse, and there is a bigger risk than that other
 countries are going to be involved even more, and there is a threat of nuclear war.
 So where is this going?
 What do we choose in terms of whom we support?
 These questions we ask ourselves, we ask the Lord to help us make decisions.
 All Christians should not rely on news and some opinion of analytics who tell us, "Okay,
 this is the truth."
 We need to ask the Lord to give us answer and to help us find our own role in all this
 mess that's going on.
 Today, I want to share with you my own understanding about what is going on and what should we
 do.
 What should Orthodox Christians do in this situation, how should we face it?
 What is going on in Ukraine and Russia?
 This is the biggest question, and I've been there in this conflict, in Donbas, quite a
 few times, and I know more than many people.
 So today I will say some things that many people will not like, but I have to say this
 because this is the truth as I see it, and there is no more time for political correctness
 and using some vague phrases, we need to speak about truth because we are witnesses of Jesus
 Christ and he is the truth.
 For a few days after this happened, I was depressed, similar to when this war began
 in February, I couldn't say much and I was trying to figure out what would be the right
 words to say and what is actually going on.
 So now after a few days I can share with you my feelings, my opinion about what is happening,
 and also I will try to answer the question of whether people should be mobilized, should
 go to war or not, because this is the people who are members of the Church, Ukrainians,
 Russians, and the Russian Church covers both Ukraine and Russia, and not only in those
 countries, in the whole world, and actually many other faithful of all nationalities,
 even here in Taiwan we have Taiwanese, Americans, Filipinos, and many other nations, and now
 there is this big question of whether we should support one of the sides or we should not
 or what we should say to those people who ask us, and by answering this question I hope
 that you can also have a deeper understanding of what is going on, especially the spiritual
 reasons behind it, and what is the true reason, the true goal of this war.
 First of all, I want to bring up a parable of the cancer.
 When there is a cancer cell in the organism, the healthy cells, I'm not a doctor or medical
 scientist, just in simple words, the healthy cells, they will try to fight with that, and
 this will create this tumor, and eventually because of this growing tumor, the person
 will die, so this death results from the reaction of the healthy cells, so it's actually the
 healthy cells that are killing the organism, which is a paradox, but this is what happens,
 and something similar is now created by the devil in Russia, in big Russia, Ukraine and
 Russia is big Russia, in my understanding, and Belarus, so this is what is happening,
 and let me explain this, because myself I am partly Ukrainian, partly Russian, which
 I think is not so relevant, because in Christ, first of all, our nationality is Christian,
 but I can understand this, because this is one family in terms of nationality, I know
 Ukrainians, I know Russians, if you are not Ukrainian-Russian, it's not your war, try
 to distance yourself from it, not taking some sides, anyhow, even if you are Russian and
 Ukrainian, you should understand better what is going on, and I am a priest of the Russian
 Orthodox Church, so this is our responsibility, to understand what is happening and to tell
 people what to do, from the Christian standpoint, so in my view, the healthy understanding is
 that there is the Rus, what is Rus, Rus has formed from many different tribes, and these
 little kingdoms, all of them, they were united, they became united under the idea of the Kingdom
 of Heaven, of Orthodox faith, that we are all one Christian nation that will set the
 goal of the Kingdom of Heaven as our final goal for the whole nation, for the whole,
 it's not nation as we know it, because it's different nationalities, for the whole civilization,
 the Kingdom of Heaven is our priority, so we are talking about the Holy Rus.
 So this goal, this big project was carried under guidance of the Lord, and many saints
 emerged in this project, even though the real situation never came to the stage that most
 people are Christians or saints, this never happened, but overall this was the direction
 and the ship which was going in that direction, and until now, people who are faithful to
 this project, they are the healthy selves, in my opinion, so those people, both in Ukraine
 and in Russia, who want to unite Russia and Ukraine, and to have one project, one direction,
 which will be based on the Orthodox faith, this is the healthy selves, which are very
 few, tiny minority, but they are very important, and Antichrist has made his genius the spirit
 of Antichrist, maybe not the final Antichrist, but the spirit of Antichrist, the Holy Fathers
 tell us that he's always, he's been there all the time, throughout ages, so this spirit
 of Antichrist, this genius, and he brought what he is doing, he is using reality as his
 starting point, so this is the kind of truth that he has, he has his own truth, for example
 the Marxists, they used some kind of economic social reality as their starting point to
 bring about all those revolutions, or the liberals who had some kind of truth, and they
 brought about the Perestroika and they supported this collapse of Soviet Union, they also had
 some kind of truth, and any big change in this world, in the recent French Revolution,
 is using some kind of objective reality out there to bring about the change, and it's
 trying to divide people on two camps, each camp will have some kind of truth, part of
 the truth in there, so now we have this Ukrainian truth and Russian truth, both of them have
 some Ukrainian, or even the world, which is supporting Ukraine in this war, the West,
 so to say, the collective West, there is some kind of truth in that position, so this truth
 that is on the Ukraine side, in essence we can say, the Ukrainians, not the West, now
 I'm talking about the Russians who call themselves Ukrainians, because I'm convinced that it's
 one nation which was divided, not ethnically, not ethnically one nation, but it is one civilization,
 one people, which were divided, and now this part of this Russian people, the Ukrainians,
 they were convinced, most of them, that they are the true Russians, and that they will
 have a free country, an autonomous, sovereign country, and this Russia is totalitarian,
 it's Bolshevik, it's fascist, so they don't want Putin, they don't want all this stuff,
 and the biggest mistake here is that they already don't consider the Russians in Russia
 to be their brothers, they see them as enemies, this is the cancer cell, this idea, this banter,
 this kind of idea, is in itself a fascist idea, so this is what happened with the mentality
 there, and of course nobody will give autonomy to Ukraine, even if this war will be won by
 Ukraine, it's not going to be an autonomous country, where do you see autonomous country
 in today's world, it's all merged into that post-modern, post-Christian, globalist agenda,
 so it's all part of what we call Leviathan, so we can see it from all those propaganda
 of a scene which happened in Ukraine after 2014, especially more and more, that is getting
 into that globalist, anti-Christian agenda.
 On the other hand, we have Russia, which also has a lot of that, but still Russia is trying
 to oppose some of this post-Christian, modernist agenda, and so people there, they are called
 to fight against the enemy, which is invading, and that was in the last speech, that is invading,
 and we're going to die, not to let this West, this post-Christian, this evil West, to conquer
 us, so we're going to fight till the end, till the last Russian.
 So this is also appealing to the ideals, the holy ideas, which are implanted into the mind
 of many Russians, especially those who care not about their own life, their own prosperity,
 but who are willing to die for some ideals, for their country, for God, for Orthodox Church,
 those who are still healthy selves.
 So it's appealing to them to go and die, and these people who are more healthy than those
 who have this Bandera mindset, they will go and die and destroy Russia for good, as those
 healthy selves in the organism.
 So now it may be too late for those healthy selves to fight in a way that the whole organism
 is going to be cured.
 So the Antichrist, he brought everything to such a stage through depriving people of faith.
 Just recently I was reading a book written by an immigrant, Russian immigrant, Eugenia
 Diakova in Paris, who saw all the horrors in the Soviet Union in the 1920s.
 And those years, 20s and 30s, were the years when Bolsheviks were blowing up churches.
 They brought about this civil war, famine, and all kinds of hatred was implanted into
 the people.
 And she saw all of that, that the Antichrist is now in Russia.
 And her book is called Shade of Antichrist.
 She saw this shade in a very insightful way.
 As a woman, she saw many things that men usually don't see.
 So she is describing these realities on the level of how children are made to suffer,
 how people slip into sinful life.
 Many, many things.
 She is describing those realities that bring about suffering, torture, and all kinds of
 miserable, they bring death, both spiritual and physical to people and to the whole Rus.
 At the time there was no division, Ukraine, Russia, it was all one big Rus, still called
 USSR, but it was still Rus.
 So what I see is that this shade of Antichrist has not abandoned that land.
 What we see now is this genius plan of Antichrist being carried to the next level, to the next
 step.
 And what is going on now is basically people become puppets in the hands of Antichrist.
 And even church leaders, they were brainwashed, they became victims, not all of them, but
 many of them, they became victims of propaganda and believing that they are preaching for
 some noble and divine mission, holy mission, they become instruments in the hands of Antichrist.
 So this is what's happening, this is what's going on now in Russia and Ukraine from behind
 the scenes because I've been there and I saw many things.
 And the question becomes, what do we say to these young people who are mobilized now for
 gold that you have to go and serve the army for your country?
 What do we tell them?
 And this question then, and to their mothers, to their relatives, what do we say?
 Should we support this?
 There is mobilization, both in Ukraine and Russia.
 On the level of the countries, I cannot give an answer.
 I'm not Putin, I'm not Patriarch, I'm not Zelensky.
 If I would be in their place, maybe I would have some ideas, some decisions, but I don't
 want to talk about some fantasies.
 I want to talk about real things.
 And the real things are on the human level, on the individual level.
 Individual level are people who could hear what I am saying now.
 Maybe you're not involved directly in this situation, but you might have Russian friends.
 You yourself are seeking for some kind of understanding.
 Many people, they support Ukraine.
 Some people, they love Russia and they feel that there is some truth behind the Russian
 stand and they are wondering if they should support Putin and this is war from that side.
 So in any case, I will say that to the people who are called to war, my blessing is not
 to go to war, both to Ukrainians and Russians.
 As a priest, I don't give blessing for going to war, even if this goes against the law.
 And even if you have to go to jail or even if your life and your, I don't know, something
 is threatened by your decision, your choice.
 On this individual level, as a Christian, don't go.
 Tell your son not to go.
 Just not tell him, just forbid him not to go.
 Apostle Paul in Matthew chapter 26, he said that to Peter, "everyone, put your sword back
 into its place, because everyone who raises the sword, he will die from the sword."
 It's not just pacifism, okay?
 In some wars you can go and you should go, but in this war, this is what's going to happen.
 No matter what side you're fighting for, you will die and you will die for Antichrist.
 He will have the victory.
 No matter which side wins, no matter what happens next, first of all, you won't see
 because you'll die.
 Salvation is you will die for Antichrist, not for some good thing that will bring you
 salvation.
 Even if you hear this being said by some church leader or anyone, okay?
 Our leader is Jesus Christ and nobody else.
 So this is my opinion, this is my blessing.
 As a priest, don't go, don't take weapon and don't go to war.
 And don't support anyone who goes to war.
 No matter in your words, in your actions, in your donations, don't do that.
 If you don't want to have blood on your hands, no matter which side you're on, okay?
 What should we do?
 We should pray to the Lord to save people from deceit and from slipping into the hands
 of Antichrist.
 The whole world, it's not just Russia and Ukraine, the whole world is going to slip
 into that unless the Lord will do miracle, seeing our prayers and what we do.
 The second is if you are able, you can do many other things.
 If you are in Russia, Ukraine, there will be tons and in other countries, but there
 will be tons of orphans, refugees, people wounded, soldiers who need care, the true
 Christians, they went and they served and they've healed those people.
 So there are so many things we can do to help relieve the pain, to help really relieve these
 outcomes of these wars and these bombings and economic consequences of this, okay?
 This will be our ministry to the Lord.
 This will be our contribution to what is going on, which is going to be much more precious
 than taking up weapons and going and killing people.
 So this is now the great opportunity that the Lord is giving to us to prove that we
 are true Christians.
 This is what we should do.
 I'm not calling people to be egoistic, not to avoid service, to be against their country
 and lose their patriotic feelings.
 I'm calling that people sacrifice themselves for the right cause and not for Antichrist.
 So what is going to happen after?
 So this is not advice for the whole countries.
 For the whole countries, if I would give advice, it's to repent, okay?
 To repent.
 But I know that not many people are going to hear my words.
 So this will not be...
 I don't see this solution right now for both Ukraine and Russia because Antichrist has
 brought it into that no solution kind of thing, okay?
 You're stuck, okay?
 No matter what you do, you lose.
 That's what's going to happen, okay?
 So I don't provide advice for those countries, those governments, et cetera.
 Only on the individual level, this is what I'm calling everybody to do, okay?
 We witness love and truth.
 Don't get into those quarrels, into political quarrels, supporting one of the sides.
 This is not going to bring any good, okay?
 It's going to spoil your inner peace.
 It's going to spoil your relationship with people for nothing, for the joy of Antichrist
 and devil.
 So let us pray for everyone who suffers and for everybody who is deceived and who is put
 into this situation that nothing, he can do nothing.
 He can have no choice.
 Let us pray for those people.
 May the Lord be with them.
 May the Lord give us wisdom and guidance so that we can serve him and that we can be a
 hindrance to any evil that is out there in this world and that we can have the true faith
 of our Lord Jesus Christ in us, bringing fruit and doing testimony for him and me.
 God bless.
