 Dear brothers and sisters, today I'm in Kaohsiung in the south of Taiwan.
 I came here to do the divine service and also to congratulate our faithful.
 We just got married, one couple, so the life is still going on.
 Today I want to say about what deceit is used by devil to mislead the whole world these days.
 He was using it all the time, but now it became so crucial that we are facing great catastrophe.
 This catastrophe is the building of the new kingdom of Antichrist.
 Like this building behind me, it's symbolic. This new kingdom is being constructed.
 We need to open our eyes to see what's going on. It won't be that easy, so please follow my logic.
 You can also look it over just to have a clear understanding.
 If we don't get these principles of Antichrist, of devil, we will be misled.
 We will become victims of some kind of propaganda.
 We hear now that half of the world is supporting Ukraine on this side of the West, or United States, and democracy, and this kind of project.
 The Russians are now being persuaded that this is evil, this is a source of evil, and we need to be liberating humanity from this one polar world,
 which will be all this sodomite propaganda, this anti-Christian stuff, parent number one, parent number two, all this nonsense,
 all this destructive, anti-Christian, Satanistic way of living, thinking.
 There is this antagonism that's created, but if we listen carefully to both sides, we will see that it's fake.
 That what people say, what we hear from newspapers, and what is being done, it doesn't match.
 So both sides are lying to us.
 They're not lying completely, saying lies, but it's half-truth.
 Today I want to talk about what's the difference between truth and half-truth.
 Because we live in this world which is an evil world, and evil means not true, relative.
 Modern world tells us that everything is relative, good and bad is relative, good to you, to him, truth is relative, it's true to you, it's true to me, at which time.
 All this way of thinking, we see it in the ancient Chinese philosophy of Taoism, that it's yin yang, everything is relative.
 We can see it in the dialectics of Marx, who also said that it's all relative.
 So capitalism has its own principles, socialism, we need this antagonism, and in this fight there is the process, the progress, progress for humanity.
 And this progress is basically what it is, it's the building of the Babylon Tower. We can see now that people of all nations, they are drawn into one of these camps.
 We used to have this capitalist camp and socialist camp, then we have these conversions in the late 80s, and now we have this new separation of the world that's going on.
 And they are saying this openly, that by 2030 the United States will not be the hegemon, the main superpower, there will be several centers.
 So the plan, this globalist agenda, is to create a world which is separated and maybe fighting even with each other.
 So this world fits very well into this overall plan.
 And today I want to say about this method of Devil, who is using this principle of dialectics to say that the truth is relative.
 First of all, why do I say it's fake? Why do I say it's not true?
 Because even in the Bible we can see that God himself, he allows Devil to exist. Devil is antagonist. So God finds that there is some use in having Devil there.
 Also we can see that Devil is tempting people, he is trying to seduce them, but this helps us grow and get stronger because of that temptation that is out there.
 So there is some kind of dialectics in this.
 We also can see in Apostle Paul's letter to Romans chapter 14, he is talking about falling off of the Jews who did not accept Jesus Christ, but through their fall Gentiles gained faith and salvation.
 We can even read one verse, it's chapter 14 verse 11.
 So, have they stumbled in order to fall completely? By no means no. But from their fall Gentiles gained salvation so that the fervor in them can be awakened.
 The idea is that the Jews, they fell away, so that Gentiles, the Church of Christ, comprised mainly of Gentiles, can be even more eager to faith because of these prosecutions, because of this hatred that surrounds Christians.
 So there was some plan, some divine meaning in that they fell away.
 And we also say that they fell away and they were against the truth, against the holiness, and they became like the Devil.
 And this project of Antichrist is just continuation of what was going on at that time.
 So, why the Lord allows this to happen is that the Church can get stronger and can overcome all these temptations.
 So, indeed, there is some reasoning behind this dialectic understanding.
 However, the mistake and the lie that the Devil is putting in there is that he says, well, if there is these two poles, plus and minus, they have same status.
 Both of them are equally important, and they are both relative. And we say no. The Lord is the truth, he is a man, and he told his disciples that for you your answer to everything should be yes, is yes, no is no.
 And everything that's more than that is from the Devil. And what is it? It's yes, but in some circumstance maybe no.
 This already, when we see this relativism in the answer, this is coming from the Devil.
 So, half-truth is a lie. For example, if your wife is half-loyal to you, what does it mean?
 It means that it's adultery. It's not loyalty anymore. If it's half-loyal, you cannot be half-pregnant.
 So, when Devil is using those ways, the dialectic, basically he is lying.
 When he has this dialectic capitalism, socialism, United States, Russia, it's already a lie.
 Truth is somewhere else. And the Devil is trying to have the Church of Christ to be the worldliness.
 When the secularization of the Church will make it victim of some process.
 So, this is why it's so dangerous for the Church to be too much united with some government or some theology.
 It will be drawn into one of those revolutions. The Devil is using this up-and-down game to reach his goal, to build this kingdom of Antichrist.
 And in the process, to destroy everything. To destroy human lives, morals, to destroy culture.
 Almost everywhere, cultures are destroyed by now.
 And to destroy the Church eventually. This is his plan.
 So, we need to be aware of his plan. We need to see behind the scenes. We need to see behind the propaganda that we hear.
 Either from pro-Western or pro-Russian media.
 We need to see that the truth is behind. It's not there. You won't get it from the news.
 You will get half of the truth, which will be fake. Because it will tell you only part of the picture.
 So, there is a collusion. I believe there is a collusion of the forces which are behind both of these conflicting parties.
 And just regular people, Russians, Ukrainians, they are massively murdered in this conflict.
 Let us pray that the Lord can spare his people.
 That he can ruin the plans, the scheme of the Antichrist, which is trying to subdue humanity, to accept him as the only way possible.
 The goal of Antichrist is to bring all those different processes into the final goal.
 That the objective way of living, way of thinking, will be his kingdom. There will be no alternative.
 Everybody will have to just accept it, because he will say this is objective reality. There is nothing else you can do.
 You have to accept this world.
 So, in that sense, he will say that this is the objective truth, and it will be the truth which will be against the true Savior Jesus Christ.
 He will have this kind of truth, and it will be against instead of Christ. And it will be the objective reality that you have to embrace.
 So, let us know these plans of the Antichrist, of the devil, to mislead us, to draw us into all those different processes, so that we can eventually become his victims.
 And we will not be able to reject that, to stay with Christ and to gain salvation.
 Thank you very much for listening. If it was a little bit too complicated, too much philosophy, sorry about that.
 But I think this is important for us to grasp the Saturn. What is his plan?
 What is his logic? How is he trying to cheat us, to trick us?
 And then we will be wiser, and we will be with the Lord, with his truth on his side. Only with him there will be true salvation.
 For us, we hate everything which is against the devil, against the Lord. We hate the devil, we hate everything that is evil, we don't have any dialogue, any compromise with that.
 So, it is not relative, it is absolute. The truth and salvation and life are absolute, not something relative. May the Lord keep us in his truth and give us his blessing.
 I mean, God bless.
