 Hey brothers and sisters, today I'm in Taichung, in the middle of Taiwan.
 Yesterday we had a divine service here, and today in this beautiful park we have a meeting
 with our parishioners, we have some picnic here, and before we have this picnic I decided
 to record this video.
 We hear many troublesome news these days, and today I want to share my feeling how does
 this fit into the gospel and to the overall Holy Scripture biblical perspective on the
 world history, we hear so many news about wars and explosions and all kinds of terror
 going on, and it may seem as some chaotic phenomena, or just some individual interest
 with this person, that person, which is easy to understand, but this can give us some clues.
 The Lord, He said that He will judge them by their deeds, not by who they say they are,
 but what they do, and let's go just one by one.
 What we see in the Bible, I will make some parallels today, we see that in the Old Testament
 there was this Antioch Epiphanes, Antioch IV, who was in the 2nd century BC for Christ,
 and this Epiphanes, he waged a religious persecution, he was chasing the Jews, the Israelites, at
 that time it was the people, God, the Israel, the Old Testament church, and he destroyed
 many of them, and he used blasphemy, he put idols in the Holy Temple, and this idol was
 the Adamination, so this approach to the holy place is basically coming from this evil man,
 and this Epiphanes, he became a symbol of Antichrist for future generations, until Adonai
 represented his Antichrist, the one who is against God, so that was one.
 Today we see many churches being destroyed, many churches being desacrised, they just
 came back from Canada, and there are so many churches which are over 100 years old, they
 become some hotels, condominiums, restaurants, some are just destroyed, demolished, because
 it's so efficient to have a church there, some become daycare centers, or just rent
 it out for any use you can do there, anything you want.
 This is the touch of the modern economy, you may say well it's just economy, it's just
 the way money works, and who is the prince of this world?
 This is one thing, we can move forward in history, we can see regarding the church,
 we can also see many churches destroyed now in Ukraine and even in Russia, in those Orthodox
 countries, and these churches are not only destroyed, some of them are taken by schismatics
 or by government, they are taken away from the people.
 Just yesterday I had one of the parishioners here in Taichung, she shared with me that
 they had a church right near in the village, and one Sunday they went there and they saw
 that it's occupied by schismatics, they used force and they just occupied the building.
 So now to attend the true church, to attend the true Divine Liturgy, they have to travel
 two hours to another village to be able to do that, or what else, they have to build
 another church, which is not easy, or they have to pray at home, which is not full service,
 so it's a big temptation, it's a great temptation, or it becomes schismatic, you have this choice,
 you also become schismatic and you go to that church.
 And this became massive with this war that began in February this year.
 So this is about the church and how it's desecralized and taken away from the faithful.
 We see also that later there was this Herod, and Herod he killed many children, those young
 boys aged two and below, he killed them, why?
 Because he said that maybe Messiah is one of them, so I just killed all of them, and
 he killed 14,000 children, babies, so that mothers were crying and the prophecy fulfilled
 that there is a great mourn, great weeping in Israel, Rachel is crying for her children
 because they're gone, she doesn't want to get comforted because they don't exist anymore.
 And this is what we have now with all these wars that happened.
 There is so much sorrow now in the world because mothers are losing their sons, just yesterday
 our parishioner told me, her friend, five sons, all her sons were mobilized, not because
 they wanted to go, but they were just forcefully taken to go to war, and most of those people
 will be killed.
 So there is this great mourning, great weeping that is going on right now, and it is going
 to be worse and worse.
 Another parallel, Herod, he also killed many of those who were against his cooperation
 with the Romans, we know that Romans were the power, and some people who were against
 the Romans, in the Gospel we read that Herod has mixed their blood with the blood of the
 sacrifices that they were doing.
 They were religious people, they were praying, they were offering sacrifice to God, and he
 just killed them and mixed their blood with the blood of the sacrificed animals.
 And this is also happening, anyone who is against the government policy now, he cannot,
 in many countries, he cannot speak out, we have that in China, we have that in Russia,
 we have that in all those many Muslim countries, and even in the so-called democratic countries
 it becomes more and more difficult for you to oppose some programs.
 For example, this is related to the epidemics, if you don't agree with it, with the measures
 that were taken, or you have any other political stance from the one which is promoted through
 the mass media, basically you'll get in trouble.
 At least you will be switched out from some social media, maybe YouTube, so this is becoming
 worse.
 I'm not saying it's something new, but it's getting worse.
 Another parallel, we can see that later, from the time of early church, the emperor Nero,
 in the 50s and 60s AD, he used fire, just burning the whole room, because he wanted
 to build a new world, he wanted to build a world of his dream, and then he accused Christians
 in doing that.
 And now we also see, the whole world is in fire, we are in the middle of a big crisis,
 and out of this fire they want to build a new world order, and also Christians and anyone
 who is speaking out, who is saying it's all the way things should be, he is the bad guy,
 he is guilty, he is against humanity.
 Similar things we've had with Lenin, whoever opposed his way of building the new world
 were against humanity, against the proletariat at that time.
 So now we have these processes which are quite similar to what we had back in those days,
 in times of Nero.
 So all these parallels I'm bringing up are telling us something.
 One last parallel I want to bring is the experience of the revolutionaries, both in anywhere,
 in Britain in the 17th century, with the capitalists fighting with the royalists, and later we
 have the French Revolution, massive killings, and fire and bombs used massively, and then
 we have the Russian Revolution, the Chinese Revolution, and we see that something that
 those revolutionaries they love the most are bombs and explosions, they like to set the
 world on fire, and they feel that yes, now I have a bomb and then it will change everything,
 so this is why they love it.
 And we have these big explosions just two days ago, the bridge to Crimea was exploded.
 We remember the towers, the two towers standing like this, I won't say their names here, okay,
 those explosions.
 We have many other examples, so this touch, this method, we can see that it's the same,
 nothing has changed.
 To bring up about the new world order.
 And there is the Masonic phrase, the slogan, that out of cows, order is coming.
 So they set the world in cows so that they can bring up their own order out of these
 cows, act like saviours, of course they won't say that these cows, they made it, they will
 come up as saviours, as people for bringing salvation.
 And we have that with everything, with this ecology, with the poverty, with everything,
 they are bringing the solution, they are the ones for bringing the solution and salvation
 for the world.
 And this will be slavery, dictatorship, we're coming to a new world of dictatorship.
 So these things, they can make us think, today I don't want to talk about politics, but I
 just want everyone to think about these parallels that we see with the Bible, with the gospel,
 that when this prince of this world is willing to establish something, he is using fire,
 sickness, explosions, sufferings, wars, okay, those policies that kill, massively kill people,
 he's using all of that in order to bring about his own plan.
 And those who suffer the most are those who serve the Lord the most, okay, they get hit
 the hardest.
 And of course millions of just ordinary people are being killed in the process.
 So let us think about this, I don't think that this world is just some events, okay,
 some news, we need to have a big picture, we need to see behind the scenes what's going
 on, and we should not be afraid of anything, they want us to lose peace, to be in fear,
 to be in uncertainty, to be hacked, but we have to be with the Lord, we have to be peaceful
 in our hearts, as this park is peaceful, there's great weather today, we have to be like this
 no matter what happens, if we are with the Lord, with Christ, we can be victorious in
 anything that happens, and accomplish the mission of our Lord with his blessing, to
 his glory, Amen.
 God bless everyone, Amen.
