 Dear brothers and sisters, we are still celebrating the view of the Mother Mary.
 This is why we are blue as a sign of her pure soul, as heavens are pure.
 And today I want to say about the evil that there is in this world, in us, because very
 often we understand evil in the wrong way, and I want to connect you to what is happening
 now in the world and how do we respond to this.
 One person in comments, subscriber once told me that what kind of Christians are you?
 You cannot even tell good from bad, evil from good, satan and god.
 Well it's not what the newspapers tell you what is evil and what is not.
 So we are talking about objective evil and how to avoid it.
 And first of all some misconceptions, one misconception is that we sometimes are materialistic,
 we think it's all about just things, objects, influence, power, and this is why there is
 no place for evil.
 What is evil?
 Is it illegal or what does it mean?
 So it's just some bad things that you do, well it's very abstract and vague.
 There is another idea that evil and good is like two powers, okay, it's like in China
 there is this yin and yang, yin and yang and it's balancing each other and it's like light
 and shadow, you need one to have another and this is why.
 Well this gives evil and satan the same status as god, but it's not.
 Evil is not something that is necessary, that has its own status and value.
 Evil I will say what is evil, okay, or there is some misconception, more occult misconception
 that evil is just also some kind of thin power that is out there and that can, it's also
 materialistic idea that can come and do something to you and you can attract that power and
 stuff like that.
 This is nonsense, this is superstition.
 When we talk about evil, of course we talk about our own evil and also evil in this world
 overall and we can say that evil is something that is destroying us, it wants to take our
 health, wants to take our time, our resources, our health, our health of our soul, purity
 of our soul, it wants to take peace away from our heart, it wants to hurt us, it wants to
 even kill us, even take our life, it wants to destroy relationships that we have with
 others, like normal, good relationships, destroy families, it wants us to suffer, to be in
 pain, in misery, ask whom?
 Well all people because they are created by god and especially those who are calling themselves
 christians or who are trying to be christians, those are the main targets for us.
 So, well, all kinds of examples.
 This evil that I am talking on individual level first is both internal, our passions,
 and external, something that we encounter in this life.
 So these internal passions, all kinds of passions, we want something, we want big nice house,
 this passion makes us buy this house and then we work from morning till night on any kind
 of job, we agree to work anywhere and to do anything to get that money to pay that mortgage
 and we lose our health, we lose our psychological health, we become stressed out all the time,
 we have no time for children, for relationships, we quarrel with our relatives about these
 things, about money and stuff like that.
 Our heart is not free, it's enslaved by all the bills and everything else that is coming
 because of our passions.
 And this is just one example, of course there are different passions, depression is killing
 many people, putting them to suicide, making them lose their health, all kinds of issues,
 all kinds of passions there is, and they all are destroying us, stealing from us.
 And very often we hear from people outside the church, from secular people, the opposite,
 we hear the opposite, they say well the church is gonna steal your freedom, it's gonna brainwash
 you, it's gonna make you suffer, you're gonna become fanatic, you're gonna lose your past
 years of your life because you cannot do this, you cannot do that, you will be brainwashed,
 you have to leave some stupid values and stuff like that.
 So they're saying the exact opposite, why that happens?
 Well it's because the devil, he's trying to mimic, to rework everything from upside down,
 so he's trying to position the true healthy life, free life as slavery, while the true
 enslavement comes from mammon, from him.
 So when we step on this path of following Christ, the shackles of mammon are to be broken.
 This is the only thing that we're gonna break and we're gonna lose, yes it may be painful
 for some people, maybe it's his lifestyle and maybe it's his business that is based
 on some sin, maybe it's some sinful relationships or something that became part of him, even
 maybe his character and he needs to get rid of that.
 When you have sickness you need to go to hospital and in this hospital you will lose your time
 because you're gonna be placed in that hospital, you're gonna endure some treatment which may
 be not so pleasant, eat some bitter medicine and maybe even cut something, you have operation,
 they will be cutting you.
 But eventually if everything is successful, and with the Lord it has to be successful,
 then he is the healer, he is the doctor.
 Then when you come out from the hospital you have healthy life, you can do this, you can
 do that, which you were not able to do before because of the sickness.
 So the same works for the church, there is some suffering that we have to go through,
 losing something that we need to lose, but it will be in order to improve, not to improve,
 to give us rebirth, to give us the true wisdom and health to our souls.
 So this is the reality.
 You can believe me, maybe you don't believe me, but this is the reality.
 And once we have stepped on this path, once we have, we threw away all the garbage that
 was preventing us, through fasting, through prayer, with the help of the grace of the
 Lord, with the union in the Holy Eucharist with the Lord, we have gained, we are walking
 on this path to salvation.
 You will see that even when this is happening, the evil that is in this world, you will not
 make friends with it.
 It will not be willing to be friends with you.
 It will sort of suffer you, you know, it will be like, maybe tolerate you, but will not
 love you, will not support you, it will be not the true friendship.
 And this world will be finding ways to reduce your freedom, your ability, your resources
 in some way.
 And this works on the individual basis, but even more so on the global basis.
 When we are talking about the Orthodox Church in the whole world, we see that the devil
 is trying a few things, he's trying to do a few things.
 He's trying to make all Orthodox separate, to have hatred among Orthodox, to have different
 local churches fight with each other, and sometimes he is succeeding in this.
 He's using many ways of reaching this goal, politics, some national topics, individual
 passions that people have, will for power, many other things.
 He has a lot of things in his arsenal, his disposal.
 So you may ask why these Orthodox, they are the true Christians, how come they don't have
 love among each other, and it's not the model for everybody else?
 Well, I tell you that most Orthodox, they're just trying to walk on this path.
 Many of them, they are still far away from having firm life in Christ, and they also
 get fooled, and they also become victims of passions, including the clergy, including
 the hierarchs, and this can be seen from what is going on right now in the world.
 We can see that many hierarchs, and many Orthodox faithful, and many clergy, they got fooled
 by some sort of propaganda, it can be on the one side, on another side, but it's some kind
 of propaganda, and they receive that propaganda, they believe that this is the truth, and I
 myself was like this before, so I know how difficult it is to get rid of that, to step
 out of that, and maybe something has to happen, the Lord has to put you through some kind
 of situation that you might get out of this mindset, believing some sort of propaganda,
 and we should not be surprised that this is what's happening, and I can tell you more.
 This time that we live in, technology is advanced, but it's not yet that advanced, this brain
 washing technology, through gadgets, through internet, it's more advanced than radio and
 TV, it's already much better, it works more efficiently, but in the future it's going
 to be even better, so this way of hypnotizing, making zombies, making people believe in something,
 these methods are going to be more advanced, much better, and in the future, when the Antichrist
 is going to be coming, he will be more successful than now, and if so many people, including
 authors, including clergy, are now being fooled and misled by some sort of propaganda, it's
 going to be even much worse in those days, so he's going to work for sure, he's going
 to use methods which are certain, and he's going to be a genius of veniuses, and you
 may say "oh, how scary, what are you saying?"
 Well for us there is nothing to be afraid of, for those who stand with Christ in Christ,
 the only thing we are afraid of is to get away, to fall away from Christ, because then
 we are going to be treated, and no matter if we are baptized, if we have theology, degree
 or something like that, it won't prevent us from being manipulated and fooled by the devil.
 So what should we do, on individual level, we have to put tremendous effort into spiritual
 life, into being awake, as the Lord said, be awake, stay awake, spiritually.
 And this will be, this will bring us to very clear understanding of our mission as Christians,
 our Christianity.
 We will feel it, we will feel that I belong to the Lord, and everything I do, everything
 that happens with me, every project that I have, it's all about me being follower of
 Christ.
 This mission, we will feel it, we will have clear conscience about it, it's not going
 to be just some kind of "oh yes, I believe", this is nothing.
 We really feel that we are citizens of His kingdom, His followers, His witnesses, only
 with such clear conscience and awareness on daily basis, all the time, there is a chance
 that we can avoid that deception that is coming, and it's already there.
 Because we have, for example, a group of priests, there are more than a hundred priests in there,
 and I see some of them, they are awake, they are not easy to be fooled, but some have been
 fooled, quite many, and it's not that easy to just tell them "oh, this is a lie", he
 doesn't think it's a lie, he believes that this is true, but this is a misconception.
 And some people say "oh, you're talking about politics, everybody has a right to have these
 political views, this doesn't matter, it's not related to your faith, you believe it's
 one thing, and what is your political standpoint is another thing".
 Well, I tell you, not in the situation that we have right now, because the situation that
 we have right now is related to unity of the Orthodox Church, it's related to future of
 Orthodox people, massive, because there are now refugees, there are now hundreds of thousands
 and it's going to be worse, something much worse is coming, I tell you.
 And if we don't understand what's going on, and we support some side in this thing, and
 calling for more blood, it's not something that's not related to our faith, we are destroying
 the Church and we are on the side of the evil, and we don't see this evil, we're blinded,
 we don't see that it's evil.
 So let us think deeply about these things.
 Let us have greater awareness on a daily basis, what is my spiritual situation, how far am
 I from the Lord, how much I need to awaken, how much more I need to do to be with Christ,
 to have this union, to have my faith alive and bring fruit, and then we can avoid all
 this that is coming.
 And also we need to be thankful to the Lord for all the days that he gives us, because
 we see this mammon, for the mammon, no, he wants us to go, to live, but the Lord still
 gives us this time, this freedom, we still have it, so the mammon cannot take it away
 from us yet.
 Maybe at some point, yes, as with the martyrs and with the apostles, all of them were killed
 also because this world hated them and didn't want them to exist, but for us we still have
 this ability to do things, to serve the Lord, and we need to be grateful, thankful to the
 Lord for this and we need to be valuing, put a great value on every day that we have, that
 we still can do things.
 May the Lord be with you, give you strength, give you strong faith, give you his blessing,
 wisdom, and keep you away from all the evil, both inside and coming from the outside.
 Lord bless.
