 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about how to deal with what is happening, with what is coming,
 because we see that the world is changing, there is this big change,
 and Christians, Orthodox Christians, they feel that it's not all rosy and nice,
 that something closer to the apocalypse is coming,
 that the new world is not going to be some utopia, some kind of paradise,
 that it will be more anti-Christian world, and it's now happening on the global scale.
 Well, actually, in one hall which I visit, they always have this cleaning that they do,
 and in this hall, very often you don't see the cleaning person, but you know that she is approaching,
 you hear this noise of this vacuum cleaner, it's getting louder and louder, you don't see it yet,
 but you know that it's coming. For people who go through spiritual life,
 they can also hear this noise of this antichrist coming, these dark times, they're coming.
 We don't see it yet, we don't see it, but we see that it's coming.
 And I've talked about it a lot before, but today I want to say what is our attitude,
 and how do we deal with this, and how do we deal with all this stress that we get from all this news that we hear,
 and also with all this garbage that we absorb through advertisement, through the internet, through movies, all kinds of stuff.
 There is so much garbage that is coming, it's wounding, it's harming us.
 It's coming through the people with whom we communicate.
 How do we deal with this, and how do we face this new world that is coming, this new future?
 Well, the first thing I want to say is let's take a look at the prophet Isaiah chapter 1 verses 18-20.
 The Lord says, "Come now, and let us reason together," says the Lord.
 "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red as crimson, they shall be as wool.
 If you be willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land; but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it."
 The sword, the wars, the viruses, the famine, nuclear weapons, and all these threats that we hear, this is what is coming.
 If we don't repent, this is going to be the outcome.
 And you say, "Even if I repent, and it's not going to happen with me, well, it will happen with the world, so how do I live with this?"
 Well, we hear what the Lord says.
 First of all, He's going to clean our sins, and not only sins, even all this garbage and all this stuff that we have that He doesn't need.
 He will clean it with a mop, just like a table, clean surface, a glass table, just cleaning away all this garbage.
 And this is what has to happen with us if we live a spiritual life, that we are getting this renewal.
 The Apostle Paul says, "Renew your mind."
 We are getting this renewal through the power of resurrection coming to us, if we are willing to receive this renewal.
 And this makes things much more simple, because we make things too difficult, too complicated.
 This international economics, political struggle, power, this, that, and it's so complicated.
 But no, Christians, just take it easy. We need to approach all this stuff with a clean conscience, with a fresh and healthy outlook.
 It doesn't mean that we need to be naive and embrace everything people tell us, no.
 We are guided by the Holy Gospel, and we are standing firm in our faith.
 This is the first thing, that the state of heart that we are in when we are approaching all this stuff, there is no fear.
 The fear comes from us having too much interest in this world.
 If something happens, maybe I lose my job, maybe I lose my house, maybe my children cannot go to school,
 maybe this, maybe that, and we are afraid, we are scared, what is happening, what is happening in this world?
 Is it going to come to me? Is it going to be an economic meltdown?
 Am I going to be controlled through some electronic currency, social ratings?
 We are afraid of this or that. No fear, just no fear.
 Whatever is coming, whatever the Lord will allow to happen is going to happen.
 We don't want this anti-Christian world to come, and we do everything that we can to block this within our limits.
 We are soldiers of Christ, we fight with evil, we don't want this evil to be all encompassing.
 Like here, not in Taiwan, but in China, now it is forbidden already, the anti-Christ is here already,
 because it is forbidden to preach the Gospel freely.
 I cannot go to China now and preach the Gospel and do divine service.
 Okay, priests cannot do divine service, what is this?
 This is the agenda of the anti-Christ, and in many Muslim countries it is the same.
 People go to prison for being baptized, not just for baptizing, but for being baptized, you go to prison.
 Of course, almost nobody is willing to go there to preach, to even open his mouth.
 So this is the reality, this is the reality that we are facing.
 And if this is going to become the whole world, like totalitarian power, social rating, control,
 what you do, what you think, who are your friends, everything, then of course we don't want this.
 But if this is going to happen, despite our efforts, despite whatever we do to block this,
 if this still happens, the Lord allows this to happen, then we work with it, we are facing it,
 we will be thrown in that kind of world, and we will have to do our testimony in that world,
 whatever that world may be like.
 Like the early Christians, they were born into the world that hated Christianity,
 and it was illegal, and pagans, they were aggressive against it.
 But still they were facing it, and the young world, here we have relics of Saint Agnes who was martyred when she was 12,
 and so many examples.
 No problem, they were facing it, and they've done their testimony, and they've sacrificed their lives for this.
 And the main difference between us and them is that we are attached to this world, we love things, we will love that.
 If we don't have our beloved coffee, if we don't have this comfort, the world is going to collapse.
 We should be free of that, we should be free of that.
 And then we'll be able to fly away of any kind of shackles that's going to be closing upon us.
 Like the doves, they will just escape, the gates are closing, but the doves are going to escape,
 the Lord will make us escape, if we repent and live in repentance.
 So no need to just hold it attached to the old comfortable life, we should be free of that.
 The Apostle Paul, he says that we are poor, but we make many people rich.
 We don't have anything, we don't possess anything, but we contain, we possess everything, the whole world, everything is mine.
 But no, for us, I want this one thing, I have my rights to this thing, this is my little thing, this is my property.
 This makes us suffer, this is the problem we have, so let us overcome this attachment, these passions.
 And then we can be soldiers of Christ.
 Now we see that the Church, the faith is weak and we are losing in many ways.
 But a good soldier is the one that he is not discouraged when the army is being defeated, he is losing.
 No, he is fighting whatever he can, he keeps doing what he can and he fights till he dies, no matter what.
 This is a true soldier, so as soldiers of Christ, this is our attitude.
 And maybe everything is going to change because of that one soldier.
 So we just do, we don't say "oh, you see, the bishops, they say that, and this is so weak".
 We just give up, we just give up, the world is going to hell anyways, so we just wait and see what happens.
 No, we fight till the end when we do whatever we can till the very end.
 And the Lord will do miracles, we will see.
 Even if we don't save the whole world, it's going to make a big difference what we do.
 So we can recall these times of Soviet Union, 20s, 30s.
 It was also a time when the new world came, which did not tolerate anything about Christ.
 But there still stayed some people who were not killed in the Red Terror, who did not immigrate.
 They still stayed and they were bearing their witness testimony about their faith.
 For example, St. Eugene, he was writing short stories about faith and gathering to do liturgy in small apartments.
 And eventually he was a lay person, he was inviting priests.
 And eventually he was killed, he became a martyr in 1931.
 So we should be ready for that, we should be willing to die for Christ.
 So no matter what kind of world is coming, if the Lord allows it to happen, be so.
 We won't get scared and run away or be depressed so that we cannot do anything.
 The demons, they want us to be shaking, they want us to be overwhelmed with all kinds of worries and information.
 And be shaking, be nervous, that at some point they can break us. And when they break us, they build their own world.
 They possess the person and he becomes their instrument.
 So let us be mindful of that.
 We know plans and methods of the demons, of Satan, and we will not allow this to happen with us, with the Lord's help, with his blessing.
 So when our nest is being destroyed, we fly away, but we are free.
 Like the Israel, they went out of Egypt, it was desert, the uncertainty, but they went and they celebrate.
 Now it's joyful freedom in the Lord. This is what the Holy Spirit comes.
 The truth is simple and it's bringing you peace, it's bringing you calmness of heart, it's bringing you purity and clear understanding and perception.
 What you should do and what the Lord is expecting you to do.
 May the Lord give us such clean heart. Be like children, he says, not this cute infant infantile stuff.
 No, be like children. Don't worry too much about the future.
 Approach everything with open mind. Doesn't mean that believe everything you hear.
 No, but don't be, you know, always judging this and that, always negative.
 No vainglory, I am this and nothing, not sure.
 So we, let us be like children and know that no matter what happens, no matter what the world is going to go through,
 we will be there and we will be doing what the Lord will bless us to do at that point.
 May the Lord help us, give us his strength and keep us away from all the evil that there is out there.
 Lord bless.
