 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about one concept which is very central to our daily life.
 Not only to our spiritual life, which is most important, but also to our family life, to our personal psychological life,
 to the social life, even to these changes that we are coming to, the world is changing.
 This concept is alienation. There is all kinds of alienation.
 I hope today my discussion, my introduction will not be too philosophical.
 I will try to make it as straightforward as possible, because this is very straightforward.
 When we understand this, we can see it everywhere, this alienation.
 What is alienation? In the most basic understanding it's distancing, getting away from,
 or turning away from, or becoming enemy with something that you were close to.
 So this concept, you can find it everywhere. We can find it in the Bible.
 We see when the devil is falling from the heavens, it's alienation of these angels from God.
 When we see man being expelled from the paradise, this alienation from the Lord, when he does the sin.
 We see first his sin that he does, he has in his heart, he does it, then being chased away.
 The alienation takes steps. It's not always bad. It depends on what you're alienating from.
 If it's alienation away from God, this is bad. If it's alienation from evil, from your selfishness,
 from old self, carnal self, this is good. The Lord himself uses this concept when he says,
 if you don't lose your soul, if you don't perish your soul, you will not gain it. And if you gain
 your soul, you will lose it. You will perish. You will have it perished. So if you choose this life,
 you will lose real life with God. And if you choose real God, you will have to
 forfeit, you have to abandon all of this for the Lord and his gospel. So this alienation concept
 works in gospel itself. But the biggest problem that we have is alienating from the Lord.
 And we can see it in many different shapes and forms. We can see, well, first, where does this
 concept come from in terms of philosophy? We find it in early philosophers, in the Renaissance
 philosophers, but the main idea, well, most of you heard of it from Marx. He was talking about
 Marx. He was talking about workers who produce a product and that these products are alienated from
 them. It's taken by those capitalists. And this is why it's not fair. And there is alienation.
 And then there will be the revolution, which will distribute all the products evenly. And the
 workers, the proletariat, they will have it all. So this alienation will overcome it at some point.
 Well, it's an economic problem. Let us talk about where did Marx get this idea.
 One of the sources was Moses Ghez. So it was a Jew in terms of religion, not ethnically,
 I'm now talking about religion, who developed this from earlier sources, from Spinoza, from
 Hegel, from Talmud. But the idea that he brought to the world of philosophy of that time is that
 money brings alienation among people, which is true. Think about it. If you have money,
 this becomes your access to the external world. You can buy this from that one. You can buy this
 from that. You can buy goods and services. You can purchase. And when you can do this, you don't need
 to make friends with these people. You don't need any other relationship, more or less. For example,
 in your family, if everything becomes monetized, for example, you ask your children to help you
 wash dishes. And he tells you, well, this is 10 bucks. Okay, 10 bucks. Everything becomes like
 that. Your relationship is going to change. It's not going to be the same anymore. That is
 alienation that makes you alienated. It creates some kind of link, but this link destroys human
 relationships, healthier human relationships. There is no need in it. It's vanishing.
 This is an example. And this is true. My money is coming. I'm not saying that you don't need money,
 but we need to know that money has this property. And the more greedy you are, the more money you
 want to possess, the worse is going to be your human relationship with other people.
 Because it's going to be all about money. You don't have time for them, because time is money
 and they run away. And the more money you have, usually the more obsessed about money you are.
 So, not always, but there is the risk associated with it. Because you can become
 minister of mammon. And mammon creates this alienation, brings this acid which melts down
 human relationship. Poison. It's poisoning, destroying. There is alienation between husband
 and wife, because also very often it's because of money or some other reasons related to this earthly
 interest or something related to this earthly life. And then you're alienated and you turn away
 to something else. You don't want to spend time together. You're busy with something else. You
 don't want to sacrifice your time, your heart for this person. Again, there is alienation from
 culture that we can see in the 20th century and until now. Chinese, they don't look like Chinese.
 I mean, they don't dress like Chinese. They don't take Europe, take Russia, take any
 country. They not only dress. So, it's about everything. It's about habits, about moral values,
 about lifestyle. The cultures, these traditional cultures of different nations is just erased,
 almost everything. Something remains, but it's rubble. Why does this happen? Also because of
 mamat. Because you want to possess things, you become profit oriented and nothing matters.
 It all works. You can get profit from any nation. If you go to some country like immigrant countries,
 Canada, United States, you'll see. People don't care about what culture. If you make money,
 who cares about culture? Maybe I'm exaggerating, but the tendency is like that.
 This brings us to the conclusion, to observation that alienation is about distancing,
 about turning away and about betraying. Betraying your country, betraying your moral values,
 betraying your spouse. It's about betraying something usually. I'm talking about bad alienation.
 We can see how that works in the church. Even in the time of Christ, those Jews of that time,
 they did not receive the true God, the Messiah, because in their hearts they chose something else.
 They chose mammon, they chose this worldly comfort, and they didn't want salvation. So,
 Jesus told them that your sons, your father is devil, you're ministering, you're serving devil,
 even though from the outside they were doing everything right. So, that was alienation
 from God. Later we can see in the church there is alienation when there are those
 heresies splitting away, because they choose something else. They choose to worship their own
 idol that they created, calling themselves Christians, but it's not Christianity,
 so they were cut away from the church. And eventually there was this big chunk cut away,
 become Catholic, because they chose to follow Pope, which would tell him what to do in this
 world, to gain better light in this world, to do cruises, to do this and that. So, they didn't want
 to listen to the Holy Spirit, and be united, and be loyal to the traditional, the Holy One Church.
 No, I don't care about tradition, councils. No, I am a council myself. I am better than any council.
 So, that's the whole alienation happening in the time of split of the Roman Church. Then we have
 this further alienation by the Protestants, who said we don't want even any authority about us.
 Just me and you and everybody himself will decide what is the truth about Christ and what is the
 meaning of the gospel. We don't care about church, any tradition, any saints, no saints,
 no need for asceties, only for fasting. We don't need all of that self-control. What are you talking
 about? We just want to call ourselves Christians and believe that we're saved already, no matter
 what. So, they got alienated because of what? Because of mama willing to have prosperity and
 just focus on economic development and business, and no need for prayer, monasticism. What are you
 talking about? So, that was further alienation happening, and now we have alienation happening
 within the Orthodox Church. Not only now, but now we can see. So, I'm being critical of ourselves.
 I'm not trying to... I tell you, of course, that Orthodox Church is the church because it still
 preserves, but we have some weaknesses. Not everyone, but there are some problems within
 the church that we need to overcome, and one of them is the alienation from the spiritual life,
 from repentance. To choose what? To choose form. Oh, this should be like this, this icon like this,
 this movement like this, this, this, this, everything like this. Oh, it's like this,
 and dressed like this. Orthodox. What is it all about? I don't care. No, I just need all this,
 this, and now I'm Orthodox. This is a big risk within the Orthodox Church that is happening
 sometimes. So, we need to be aware of that. Okay, let's go forth. In the 20th century,
 we have all types of alienation. On the worldwide scale, global scale, we have those revolutions,
 which is even before. For example, in the West, we can see, we can have this revolution, industrial
 revolutions, and before that, we have those revolutions, bourgeois, those getting rid of
 monarchs, alienating from this family life that we have a father who is a monarch. We respect him,
 we obey him. No, no, we don't obey any authority. We just decide ourselves what's convenient,
 what's best, how to make money, and so on. So, we don't need those monarchs. We decide ourselves.
 So, that is one alienation, technological alienation, capitalism. This beginning of modern
 capitalism is we don't need to be those nice, those noble, having some values. No, we don't
 need all of that. We just need to make my open business, open factory, do this, do that, sell,
 buy. That's betraying the previous ideals and getting into this new lifestyle. And this is
 triggering industrial revolutions. First, second, third, now fourth, these industrial revolutions
 are coming in waves. And I'm not against progress. But we need to remember, same as with money,
 not against money, but we need to remember that a lot of that is motivated by Mamont. We are
 motivated to invent a dishwasher because we don't want to wash dishes. And you can say, well,
 you can have more time to pray and to think about spirituality. No, people don't want this to do
 this in order to be with God. No, they just don't want to do things. They are lazy. They want to
 push a button, you have your stuff, and eat it, and finish, even though it's garbage stuff.
 Or it's better to have a healthy organic thing falling out and you eat it and you go.
 So it's not because of searching for God and prayer. No, the motivation behind this is
 different. But we, for example, if we choose to live with God, of course we can use products of
 Mamont. All these products, everything is done by modern technology, which is convenient,
 even though its motivation behind it is Mamont. But we have it, what should we do?
 We use it, no problem. We use it for a different purpose. We use it so that we can serve our Lord
 more, not to be attached and be possessed by all these things. Willing more, better, nicer, no.
 Next, we have the sexual revolution in the 20th century, and this revolution is alienation from
 traditional values, from commandments of the Lord, from even basic human understanding. What is
 family? What is responsibility? No, people don't want it. Why? Mamont. Mamont tells you your flesh
 needs to be, it needs to enjoy, to have, possess whatever you want. You're alienated from other
 person. You just use his or her body because you like this stuff. And that's it. Use it and throw
 it away. And so this brings people to go away from any responsibility and they define themselves
 and break up their soul, their life. So that's what sexual revolution is all about. And then we
 have later, even further, when we have this embracing all these sodomy values. Society
 basically, it's not everybody has to become a sodomite, but people have to agree that this is
 fine and that there is no gender. You decide yourself what is gender, what your gender is
 all about. You change your gender. That's another alienation. Even just by accepting it, society is
 being alienated from traditional values. So it's taught in schools and everywhere. So that's another
 type of alienation. This was happening in the last couple of decades. Another big alienation,
 because I want to talk too much about socialist countries. That's another way of alienating people
 from God and from everything. That's another way. But that's also alienation. People become
 materialists and only care about the material well-being and stuff. So we have those
 alienations. So we are coming now to the alienation that's happening now. And what is it? What is the
 alienation in our time? And of course there is tons of other aliens. For example, alienation from
 the countryside. People don't want to live there. They want to choose big cities to make more, not
 to develop, to learn, not to make more money and to buy more things. People want to...
 Now I'm coming to the big alienation that's happening now. And it's going to become bigger
 and bigger. This is alienation from reality and from yourself. Alienation from reality
 is when we are running away from real life to games, to Facebook, always with our gadgets. What
 is happening there? We don't care about our family. We don't care about real life. No need
 for responsibility. This is where we're going. Then we'll have this metaverse and everybody is
 going to jump in there. This cyberpunk or whatever you want to call it. Alienation from all the
 freedoms people have and they will submit to this new system that's happening.
 And alienation from yourself. What do I mean by that? I mean that when you're completely
 possessed by some virtual... You have your avatar. You have this and that. You forget who you are.
 You become part of the... It's like the bee flying with the flow. Because it doesn't have
 yourself. No, you're just... Your brain is completely hacked and you are in that state.
 You're possessed by all this flow of information, of what you're told. This is right. This is
 wrong. This is dangerous. You avoid this. You have to do that. You receive and this is where you go.
 This is what you believe. All your fears, all your worries. Whatever people now hear from the news,
 that's what everybody is talking about. That's where we are. People don't want to think. People
 don't want to take responsibility. Because if you're agreeing with everything that you
 see, read the news, you don't need to be responsible for your own opinion, which may
 be different. Your brain is switched off. Your heart is switched off. You're like a zombie.
 And later you will have all kinds of things. I don't want to talk about this. This is
 transhumanism. You can read about it. Burning man. What is burning man? You burn man to create
 something else. You become like a program in the big system. You're just a function.
 You're not a son or daughter of God. Unique with your soul and with your path to the Lord. No,
 no. You become just a part of all this. And people are willing to to to fulfill that and to enter,
 to dive in this new reality. So that is what is coming and we already can see it.
 So let us beware of all these alienations. All of them is just some kind of expression of being
 alienated, separated. Apostasy. This is what we're talking about. Apostasy from the Lord.
 First it happens in the heart. Then it happens in life. On the individual level. On the social
 level, first people begin to think like that, do things like that. And then there is the big
 change of the social order that's happening. We have the revolution in Russia. Prior to that we
 had maybe 50 years of that kind of life. And then life away from God. So why call yourself
 Christians if you're not? And then there is a revolution which we can see that yes, yes,
 people are not Christians because they blow up churches. They don't live like Christians.
 And that's real reality. So the same thing is going to happen with all this big transformation.
 We are already losing many things and that is going to be the big change. It's going to
 just prove that that's how things are. So I don't want to make this video too long.
 I hope I was clear enough to say what I wanted to say. We need to remember all this. In any
 nation, in any kind of setting, we can turn to God. We can overcome all these alienation
 apostasy if we search God and live not for ourselves but for Him. So things seem to be
 complicated. They're not complicated. As soon as we change, we can overcome all this destructive,
 self-destructive alienation processes. And the Lord will guide us, He will give us healing,
 He will recover us from all this misery and all this defilement. Any kind of alienation,
 sin, sin, any kind of sin is defiling, is making us not pure. Alayination from the pure heart of
 a child makes you complicated, makes you think how to trick people. This is another
 alienation. Any kind of sin is some kind of alienation. When you feel that you can steal
 something, that's when you're alienated from a righteous life, from righteous way of treating
 things. Now you're stealing. Or when we have gluttony, that's also... Any kind of passion sin
 is trying to alienate us from the righteous way of life. We just need to choose to go back,
 to turn back to the Lord and live with Him. May the Lord help us, give us His blessing,
 preserve us in His grace, so that we can gain life from Him and serve Him every day of our life,
 no matter what. I mean, God bless everyone.
