 "Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord himself said, 'Fear not those who kill the body, but
 I tell you whom you should be afraid of; fear the one who can destroy both the soul and
 the body in the guiana of fire, that is God himself.'"
 These words they sound terrifying because God as we imagine in our fallen imagination
 is some rosy like a Santa Claus.
 He is always smiling and he is always giving you good things and because why?
 Because he loves you, right?
 Well, this is our emotional and corrupt understanding of love.
 The love of the Lord is different, it is THE love and the love is he cares about salvation
 of your soul and everything that impedes this salvation is hated by him.
 So today I want to say about something that is very important and about which we have
 so many misunderstandings inside the church and with the clergy and with the bishops.
 There are two ideas which people have about human life.
 The most basic thing and we don't get it because we are too worldly.
 The first idea is common to most people, most people have this idea coming from the Renaissance,
 from this anthropocentric world view, that the human life is the highest value, it is
 absolute value so you have to protect it by all means and there is nothing more important
 than human life.
 And after Holocaust and all these terrible wars that we have, we even have more appreciation
 of human life.
 But in practice, of course, there is disregard.
 People believe it but in reality we see that this is not how the world lives.
 Because people kill each other all the time and economically destroy each other.
 This is another big issue.
 But today I am talking about conceptual things.
 So this understanding within the church, there are people who support this view and this
 view is not biblical.
 This view comes from some merge of ancient Greek culture and Christianity and makes human
 life the absolute value.
 That's why we have human rights, human freedoms, all this democracy which is all fake.
 All these things people talk about it but it's all fake, it's just used to manipulate
 others.
 But at least conceptually these things are approved, they are accepted and there are
 people who fight for human rights and there can be a dictatorship based on this.
 Like dictatorship of those who believe that ecology is the most highest thing, the environment.
 And then we can destroy economy and destroy everything for the environment.
 Well, it's another way, it's postmodernism.
 But modernism is more centered on human life and later progress and technological progress
 and other things.
 I don't want to get into this today.
 I want to indicate the problem with this worldview, this idea about human life and the opposite.
 The opposite which says that no, it's not the absolute value and there are many other
 things that are more important.
 I'll talk about that in a moment because the truth is neither here nor there.
 The truth as the Lord tells us.
 Why we can say this?
 We can see that beginning from the Old Testament, human life was never the highest value in
 the Bible.
 And it's even more difficult to understand why the Lord is destroying sinners.
 Three thousand people died after worshipping that golden calf.
 Why not give them the opportunity to repent?
 Why destroy them?
 Why that person who helped to hold the casket of covenant not to fall down?
 Why he fell dead by the Lord's punishment?
 Why the Pharaoh died, why the Lord blessed all those wars that the Israelites were fighting
 with all the nations who occupied Palestine, the Promised Land?
 Why so much blood, so much destruction?
 And it's all blessed by the Lord.
 So it creates many problems for us to explain how this was possible in the Old Testament,
 but it's not possible anymore in the New Testament time.
 But the conclusion we can get from those examples and from what the Lord said himself, the conclusion
 is that there are absolute values that are higher than human life.
 And for the Lord, it's more important the salvation of human soul than his life, his
 physical life.
 This is why he says don't be afraid of those who kill your body.
 Be afraid of him who can destroy both your body and soul in the fire.
 And when they come and tell him about those 18 people who died, this tower of Silo, he
 fell and killed all of them.
 And he didn't say, guys, I will pray for them.
 I'm so sorry to hear this bad news.
 Let us pray for them.
 Let us help their families.
 Let us do something about it.
 I'm so sorry.
 I will pray for their soul.
 And no, he didn't say anything of that.
 He said, if you don't repent, all of you are going to die in the same way.
 Very strict, no compassion, no compassion for those guys.
 So this is a big alarm to us that our repentance matters more to the Lord than our life, our
 health, our economic well-being, anything that we have.
 Our repentance and our life with the Lord or in sin and against him, against his will.
 This is much more important for the Lord than anything else.
 Another opposite idea of this, the opposite idea says that it's more fundamentalist.
 And we have fundamentalists even within the church.
 And these fundamentalists, they say, no, they point out to all those wars and fire that
 came to Sodoma and Hamor, and they say, no, the human life is very relative.
 It doesn't matter much to the Lord.
 There are big projects that the Lord has to accomplish.
 And those projects are much more important than human life.
 And you can sacrifice.
 And if, for example, we are fighting for an Orthodox country, of course, we need to go
 and die without thinking because we protect the Orthodox country.
 We're against Sodoma and Hamor.
 So we can destroy everybody who has the values of Sodoma and Hamor.
 And if in the process there are other hundreds of thousands of people who die, well, be it
 so.
 It's all in the Lord's hands.
 They die, well, the Lord allows them to die.
 So we don't care.
 We just go and do it.
 This is a fascist and even Satanist mindset.
 It's called fatano dicea, it's a justification of death, which is terrible, especially when
 people in the church have it.
 And we had one speaker who said, well, see those revolutions in Russia.
 We just need the big canons and put it here and there.
 And we just kill all of them and there will be no revolution.
 Everything would be fine with Russia.
 So he had this idea that we can just use force, power, just destroy everybody who is against
 us and just fix the problem.
 Well, this mindset is much more dangerous even than the liberal one.
 This mindset is based on false understanding.
 This is, of course, people who want a religious sanction to go and kill.
 They like it.
 Of course, they receive this news and this all.
 The church tells us, the Bible tells us, okay, let's go and do it.
 And the Lord himself said that the times are coming when people are going to be killing
 you, thinking that they are serving God.
 And now we have these times, big time.
 What is the problem?
 There are many problems, of course, with this kind of thinking.
 Well, first the Lord created humans, everyone gave us life.
 And he is happy just to see that we are alive, that we do something.
 He is happy about this.
 As you would be happy to see your child play in the backyard or somewhere, no matter what
 he is doing, you are happy just to see him there.
 And this is the joy the Lord has even much more when he can see us just live and do things.
 However, if the child is behaving badly, if he is singing, making other people suffer,
 always disobeying his father and even scolding his father and doing all kinds of domination,
 the attitude will be changing.
 The parent would be tolerating this for some time, maybe finding a way to do something
 about it, talking to him, but if the thing is getting worse, he is going to fix it, he
 is going to find a way to fix it, okay.
 So the Lord in the same way, if he can see that someone is bringing evil and destruction
 and suffering and all the other stuff, he will find a way to fix it.
 Maybe he will not destroy, maybe he makes him incapable or he will do something about
 it.
 We don't know, it's the Lord's judgment.
 We don't help him to judge, he will do the judgment and execute it.
 But in the Psalms he said, those who are the killers and who are deceivers, they will not
 live half their days, they will die soon, most of the time they die young.
 Even if they don't, some crooks, they live 200 years and more, well, this is an exception.
 I think the Lord has some special plan for them, there is some use in their existence.
 So we don't do judgments, but we know that life of someone who is evil and disseminating
 evil to others, disseminating lies and bringing people to suffer and also live sinful life
 and go and destroy their soul, then he will not tolerate it too long.
 He is a long-suffering, we say, the Lord is a long-suffering, but it's not unlimited.
 There will be an end to this.
 And in the Psalms there is a saying, you see a sinner out there, after a while you look
 at the place, you won't find him, he's gone already, because that's how things are happening.
 So now politicians and church people, they like to use the gospel and the Bible to justify
 their political agenda, to justify something else, wars and other things.
 And we can go back to times of the Lord.
 At that time there was a war against the Roman Empire, it conquered Palestine, Israel, Judea,
 and there were people who were not satisfied, and they wanted to return this land back,
 because it's not just their homeland, which is now occupied by a foreign invader, but
 this is their land given to them by God himself.
 So by chasing out these invaders, they will be accomplishing the plan of the Lord to give
 this land to the people of Israel.
 This is even a much more holy thing.
 But what was the attitude of the Lord?
 He neither supported this, nor was he against this movement, the zealot movement.
 He was distancing himself from this, and he cared about those children of Israel who can
 repent and come to the knowledge of the truth and reach salvation, follow him and reach
 salvation.
 This is what he was caring about.
 So what do we see in today's church?
 Different priests and bishops, and when there are some political things and conflicts, they
 take sides, and they find some justification, even from the Bible, to say "yes, yes, you
 need to do this, you need to go and fight and kill and whatever.
 Why?
 Protect.
 You need to sacrifice yourselves for others" and many other things, but it's completely
 different from what the Lord himself, his attitude in that kind of situation.
 And no matter what you take, you say it's Ukraine being invaded by Russia, or you can
 say it's Russia being pushed by the West or by some globalist, I don't know, sodomites,
 or someone else.
 No matter what is the paradigm you have in your hand, the political paradigm that you
 have, it's still, it doesn't find support in the life of Jesus Christ, in his preaching,
 to support either side and to justify any kind of war to go on, to happen.
 But this is not what we see.
 So there is this attachment to this worldly interests, who has power, who has what, and
 calling people Christians to go and kill.
 So this is really telling us that many people are hacked, their mind is hacked, their brain,
 their heart is hacked, and they make wrong decisions and take, and do wrong things and
 call people.
 Well, if you're blind, you'll bring other people also to the pit of destruction, yourself
 you'll fall into it, and you'll bring others into that pit.
 So we should be very careful in what we hear, even from church people, from spiritual leaders,
 and to always look at the Gospel, Holy Fathers, what did they say?
 And we can also conclude that whenever there is any earthly interest, all this is Orthodox,
 these Orthodox countries, all these are limits, we have to protect, this is homeland, yes,
 there is responsibility, there is your duty to the homeland, yes, and there is your duty
 to God, and sometimes there may be a conflict between these two duties.
 And even when we talk about the duty to the homeland, the duty to go and protect your
 country and die for it, the Israelites, they fought for their homeland, for sure, they
 fought for the promised land which was given to them by God, but in case of some secular
 country that we have, the government that tells you to go and die for this country isn't
 really representing the interest of this country and its people, that's a big question, because
 now you don't really know who is behind this country, this government, and what their agenda
 is, they tell you, but do we believe the news and all this stuff that we were told?
 I think we cannot be so naive, modern times, modern politics, and the way the world runs,
 it's not the same as 2000 years ago, even 100 years ago, so when we have these imperialistic
 wars, like First World War, who knows, what are we fighting for, those people in those
 different countries, they were just fighting non-stop, who knew who they fought for, their
 country or some imperialist agenda or, I don't know, new world order, what are they fighting
 for?
 Something similar is happening now, even worse, so you go, you think you're dying for your
 own country, but you die for something else that you're not told about, okay?
 And even if it would be for your own country and your own people, you don't find support
 in the gospel, you don't, yes, it may be your duty as a citizen, but don't use gospel to
 justify it, okay?
 So this is something I wanted to share with all of you, and I think we need to be wise,
 we need to be digging into the Word of God, okay, not just listening to some people interpreting
 it in their way to justify some agenda, some political interests, no, we need to know the
 Word, and how the Holy Church, the Holy Church through the Holy Fathers, is telling us the
 meaning of the Holy Word that can bring us to salvation, and we need to be in repentance.
 Without this, our life loses its meaning completely, doesn't have value in the eyes of the Lord,
 okay?
 So let us live righteous life and seek the Kingdom of Heaven and its truth every day
 all the time.
 I mean, God bless.
