 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord told to his disciples that if you don't bear fruit, you will be cut out and cast away into the fire.
 And also in the Revelation we see that the Lord is telling those churches that they have to stand in faith.
 If they persist till the end, they will receive the crown from the Lord, the crown of victory.
 And what we see now is that there is not much fruit that we bring, that we bear.
 And this is over centuries seems to get worse.
 How do I know? How do I know that? We can judge from the mission that we do.
 This is only one aspect. For example, in many countries I go, in Asia Pacific or in Southeast Asia, in Asia, there is a lack of mission efforts.
 And it's obvious that it could be done. It's nothing impossible.
 And for centuries, either nobody goes there, nobody wants to go there, or somebody began and didn't finish and now it's abandoned.
 There is all kinds of situations. And in other places we go, there is a church where there are 15-20 priests in one place and they are in charge of saying one little phrase during the whole service.
 And that's it. And everything is stable, everything is fine, they get their paycheck. Why bother? Do something else.
 So this is just one example, one little example.
 We can see this everywhere, not only in the mission, in the ascetic life. There are not too many great ascetic people right now.
 And even on the regular basic parish life, the efforts in terms of spiritual life, in terms of studying the gospel, in terms of participation in church life, it's very small, very limited.
 Even in educating their own children, people don't want to put effort into that, to bring them in faith.
 So the question comes, why this happens, what can we do about it, and what kind of mistakes there are.
 First of all, I want to say what kind of fruits. There are different types of fruits, which are interrelated, but still.
 First of all, there are three main types. The first type is ministry to the Lord through self-sacrifice.
 And this ministry can be all kinds of ministries. For example, our dedication, our ministry in our family.
 It's not just a regular family. If we are Christian, we sacrifice ourselves in this ministry.
 So in raising children, in caring for our spouse, in all kinds of things related to our family, but it's done as a sacrifice ministry to the Lord.
 Not just driven by the idea "I should do this" or by our emotional, sentimental feelings.
 No. Or because we're expected to do something, so we have to do it and we do it. No.
 It has to come from our heart, Christian heart and love to Christ.
 And our labor, of course, whatever we do, our work, if we do it in a Christian way, that's ministry to the Lord.
 So this is most common. Most people, they are focused on this kind of ministry, or they're supposed to do this ministry, but they do it in a lousy way.
 I'm talking about Christians. There are other types. There is a pastoral or a teacher, people who educate others, help them to be enlightened by the Lord, to gain knowledge or salvation.
 There is the study for students, that's another type of ministry, or researchers doing research.
 There is other, for example, writing books, or music, or Christian. Of course, not for vainglory. I'm a great musician, so I write music. No. For the ministry to the Lord.
 As also as a self-sacrifice. Or helping on the parish life. This is ministry. We spend our time with chanting, with other help that the parish may need, social work in the parish.
 And even caring for our health can become ministry if we do it so that we can better serve the Lord. Not just for myself, but for the Lord.
 That I can be more healthy, my brain works better, and even that can be part of ministry, no matter what we do. And even our rest, because you will say, so when do I rest? Yes, we have rest, but it has to be as much as needed.
 Antum quantum, as the Romans used to say in Latin. Just as much as needed, not more, not less, and also it has to be to glorify the Lord.
 Apostle Paul tells us, whatever you do, do it to the glory of the Lord.
 So this is most common. Ministry to the Lord. Most general. And there are two other types, which are more specific, but they are also necessary for everyone, every Christian.
 First is mission, testimony about our faith. And the second one is ascetism, spiritual life, prayer, fasting, reading lines of holy people, reading the gospel, first of all.
 So this is necessary. Without this, our other ministry will be impossible.
 So now the question is, why don't we bring these foods? It's quite straightforward, quite simple, what I just mentioned. The big problem is that we submit to the deceit from the devil, to all kinds of seduction and all kinds of impeding factors.
 What does the devil want? He wants either that we become big sinners and we serve him, serve Mammon, then he will give us the power to do many things like that.
 Or he will, if we don't want to be like that, he will try to at least make us addicted to some sins, addicted to something that we cannot get free, we cannot become free.
 And he will use that addiction to hack, to make us incapable of doing anything for the Lord.
 Or if we try not to be seduced or hooked, he will try to suppress our will, that we have bad mood, that we have depression, that we have fears, that we have disbalance, spiritual, physical.
 He will try to at least make us nervous or pessimistic, so he will find a way to do that, that our will is broken.
 And also through that situation he will try to hack us, because the future of society, it will be hacked people, almost everybody, it's going to be hacked big time.
 Now almost everybody is hacked, but not as bad as it will be.
 So this hacking of people is being done gradually, because if he does it fast, people will go back, but he wants to have a stable resolve.
 For example, the whole Western church used to be Orthodox, but through centuries he was placing this virus into the minds of people, both on top and regular folk.
 He was pulling them away, pulling, pulling, slowly, slowly, slowly, and then they split up, become heresy.
 So he is doing this now on global scale, global level, he is pushing, pushing, pushing, day by day.
 We are thinking about future, what's going to be, okay, how does this sub-crisis will be resolved, or some new technologies are going to come and everything is going to be better.
 We are waiting for something, most of us, we are watching news, what happened, all some things that I am expecting, maybe they happened.
 But we don't notice that on a daily basis he is doing his job, and we are sliding away from him.
 So to do this, to change, to reverse this, we really need to unlock some big potential that we have, spiritual potential.
 We can see in the Saints, in the examples I have mentioned, how big impact they had, most of them, and how they had this eagerness and they dared to do something very special, very important for the Lord.
 Be it mission, be it asceties, be it something else, they were the champions of faith, and we will see how did that happen.
 One example, also, like analogy, which is not the best, but we can see that, for example, capitalism, the development of capitalism, maybe from the 16th, 17th century, we have this great expansion of technology, industry, industrial revolution, and the world has changed.
 Now you watch, you can go outside and just watch out of the window, and you see it's a completely different landscape, everything is so much different from 300 years ago.
 But 300 years ago, that kind of situation was for thousands of years, people lived in those small little houses and riding of horses and stuff like that for thousands of years, almost nothing changed.
 And they thought, well, that's the life, that's how it is, we cannot do much, but all of a sudden, we have so much change happening.
 So capitalism found some kind of key to liberate, it's not that people before could not do it, they could do it also, but they did not, they thought they were unable, incapable, but at some point this key was found and we have this expansion of everything.
 I'm not saying it's good or bad, okay, there's another question, but in a similar way, we need to find that key that can expand the potential of our soul, and of course, only with the Lord's help and blessing, we can make it happen.
 Okay, we can make these big changes happen in our spiritual life and in the ministry that we do, in bringing this fruit to Christ that he's waiting for.
 So how do we do it? Of course, Mammon, okay, capitalism, it was based on Mammon. The main driver behind that expansion was Mammon. People wanted to have a better life, more comfortable, prosperity, enjoy, consume, and earn, have property, this and that, and eventually that worked.
 Of course, not only that, it's also talent, it's the scientists who were seeking the truth in the universe, and of course, it's not all bad, it's not all coming from Mammon, but Mammon was a great big driving factor behind this.
 The driving factor that should be behind our change is completely different. Unfortunately, in some so-called Christian churches, it's delusion.
 They have some kind of delusion, and they become fanatics about something, and they do this and that. And you can tell that this is not healthy, it's not coming from Christ.
 Why? Because it doesn't have the spirit of repentance and humbleness. There is some other spirit behind it. So we don't want to slip into that.
 What we need to do, we need to bring deep repentance. The key to bringing this food is deep repentance.
 We can see those saints who went to the end of the world, and they preached, the apostles and others. Many of them, they had this really great big turn away from sin.
 And in order to prove to the Lord that they love him and that they value this gift that he gave them, they want as many people as possible to know about this, to find faith, to reach salvation in the kingdom of heaven.
 So this is why they have this zeal, this eagerness to preach the word of God and to do mission. And the similar thing with the ascetics, because like Saint Mary of Egypt, she was a big sinner before her conversion.
 And once he converted, she went into extreme ascetics because she felt that this is the only way for her to prove to the Lord that she is thankful for the forgiveness that he gave her.
 And that she was completely different. Now she wants to serve him with as much zeal, much bigger zeal even, than she had in serving the devil before.
 And with most ascetics, this repentance is the key factor behind that eagerness that they have in the ascotism that they do.
 So our repentance is very shallow. We don't have much repentance.
 So sometimes we think, "Oh, just maybe one month ago I said something to someone, maybe it was not very good."
 Well, this is not repentance. Repentance is when we see that we are in hell, we live like hell. We sin against everybody around us. We betray the Lord all the time.
 We are slaves of our passions and we have this big, deep repentance. And then we will have the great potential for the life and faith that the Lord can come and heal our soul and make it bring fruit.
 Because with the parable of the sower who was sowing the seeds, it's only one type of soil that brought fruit. It was the gusla.
 And everything else by the road or in the rocky land or among the thorns didn't bring fruit.
 It didn't bring fruit because people did not value the salvation, this word of God that they heard, they received. They did not put it in the main four priorities in their life.
 And they did not bring fruit or they grew and then some temptation came and they withered away.
 So, this is so important, that we make our heart, our soul, this good and prepared and nurtured soil that will be deep and good enough and no other thorns, weed, nothing else, so that it can bring the fruit manifold.
 And of course mission and ascetism should be in the life of everyone. Even if this is not our main content of our ministry, our ministry is in other shape, without ascetism, without mission, we cannot do anything else.
 So, let us work towards this goal, towards this goal of liberating the spiritual potential that I have with the Lord's grace and Lord's help, so that I can bring much more fruit that I do right now.
 And the Lord will tell me how and what kind of fruit I should bring. So, may the Lord help us in this time, in this time when there is a weak faith.
 We don't see many examples around us of such zeal and eagerness, neither in mission field or in ascetism, but this means that we have the big responsibility.
 It's on us. If there is not so many people, it's not an excuse. Oh, I am like everybody. No, this means that us, we have, the Lord is watching us, if we can have a different trend and bring fruit, despite everywhere else the darkness is overcoming
 and people are either depressed or pulled into some sin or something else is going on.
 May the Lord help us, give us His grace, His revelation, His wisdom and make us walk in the footsteps of the apostles and of all those saints who were pleasing to Him and me.
 God bless.
