 Dear brothers and sisters, I went to a new mission trip and today I'm in the airport
 of Singapore.
 I spent here almost all day, so more than seven hours, and I'm going to somewhere else.
 Today I won't tell you where I'm going.
 That will be my next video.
 Today I want to tell you about Singapore Churchwise, because the development of this mission here
 was very recent and I saw how it came from nothing to what it is now, because now Singapore
 is the center of the good metropolitan or metropolitan of Singapore and all Southeast
 Asia and even East Asia, partly Korea, and also some countries of the Oceanian.
 So it's a big area that's covering many countries, and now it broke up into four diocese, which
 is even better, because now we have four bishops, and well, supposed to be four, but now it's
 more complicated than that.
 It's important to say that it is very good to have a bishop who will be developing a
 mission somewhere.
 If you are far away, your bishop in Moscow, like us in Taiwan, is very far away, and it's
 quite difficult to communicate on a regular basis, to receive all this care and support
 from a bishop.
 So it was our hope that one day in this Asian region, in this Southeast Asia, many, many
 countries, there will be a diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church, because the Russian
 Orthodox Church used to have outside of the former Soviet Union, outside of that boundaries,
 it used to have only eight diocese, and all of them were in Europe and in the Americas.
 There was nothing in Asia, and it was quite strange, because Russia is a big country,
 and it has a big presence in the Asian part of the continent, but it doesn't have any
 diocese in Asia.
 So that made it very difficult to develop the mission, and it's even much bigger need
 for the mission in this area than, say, in Europe or in the United States.
 So that was our dream for many years, to have the diocese here.
 So let me tell you a little bit how this all came about.
 Myself, I came to this region, I came to Hong Kong in 2004, so it's almost 20 years.
 And at that time, there was, of course, no diocese, and here in Singapore, there was
 nothing, there was nothing Orthodox, as far as I know, not even Russian, not even any
 Orthodox Church was in Singapore.
 But very soon, well, more than 10 years now, there was a community established here in
 Singapore, and that community were just very few faithful, something similar to what we
 have in Taiwan, and that community grew, it was Bishop, at that time, it was Bishop Sergei
 of Seoul National Board, he was responsible for this community, it was his initiative
 to develop this community here.
 And he also established two communities in Malaysia at the time, and for quite a few
 years, there was nothing more, it was quite small and simple, and they gathered in some
 very basic place, something like a garage, which was made a church, so it was quite difficult
 for quite a few years.
 But with the Lord's help, it grew to much bigger projects.
 And let me tell you how that happened, so that it's just, it's the history, the miracle
 of the Lord that is working in our times.
 This happened like that, in 2013, we began mission in the Philippines, I was sent to
 the Philippines to deliver some help after the typhoon Yolanda, a very big typhoon, and
 very soon, we have that big mission, many people were willing to become Orthodox, it
 was about 3,000 people.
 And I was in charge of that project, because Taiwan was very close, at the time there was
 no diocese, so it was very, very difficult to develop any mission in this region.
 And after developing that mission, maybe about two years have passed, somewhere around 2015,
 I believe, Bishop Sergei was sent to the Philippines for a delegation, it was a visit, that he
 can see people, that he can bring them blessing from patriarch.
 And at that time, we had lunch in one of those villages, and he told me that it is planned
 to have a diocese in this region, because there is a big need for that.
 Many communities, they're scattered, they lack coordination, they lack their support,
 so they need these structures, church structures, so that they can be united and running smoothly.
 So he shared with me his view that it should be Singapore, the center for these diocese.
 And soon after that, maybe around one or two years, I think it was 1216, there was a structure
 formed called Administration of the Patriarchal Perishes in Southeast Asia.
 So all those parishes, not including Taiwan, in Taiwan, China, that area is not under this
 diocese, for some reasons.
 But everything else, all other parishes, Thailand, Philippines, everything else, Vietnam, all
 of that was united under that structure, under the new, it was like a secretariat, like a
 small administrative structure to take care of these parishes.
 There was in 2016, and two years later, in the end of 2018, eventually this diocese was
 established.
 This official diocese of Singapore and all of Southeast Asia was established.
 And at that time Metropolitan Sergei, he became the head of this diocese, and then it was
 growing and everything was set in place to develop the mission further.
 And this diocese grew, at that time also one interesting thing, one of the reasons why
 opened this diocese was the conversion of the people in the Philippines, because now
 there were so many locals who live in this region who are willing to have the mission
 of the Russian church in this region.
 They were applying for that, and since its many and its locals, and even some of them
 want to become priests, the church decided to establish this diocese.
 So our Philippine mission contributed to establishing this great big metropolitan of Singapore.
 So later in, well, I think it was 2019 maybe, this diocese grew to become metropolitan,
 and was split into four dioceses, which would have more bishops, get greater administrative
 support to all these countries, to all of those communities in these countries.
 And which four?
 Okay, the one that had the center remained in Singapore, was responsible also for Indonesia
 and Malaysia.
 Another one was responsible for the Philippines and Vietnam, the center was in Manila.
 Another one was responsible, became responsible for Thailand and all those countries near
 Thailand, including Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar.
 So that was the third one, and the last one was Korea.
 So that was a really big development.
 All of a sudden we have the structure, we have all this support of the bishops, and
 that was a great, great blessing.
 And two years ago, in 2020, during the sickness, which is the breakout, at that time there
 was also a big development.
 Because my trips to East Timor and to Papua New Guinea, they brought fruit.
 Many people were converted, and this was honored by the church, and the church has included
 those two countries into this big metropolitan of Southeast Asia.
 So this went out of the Southeast Asia into Oceania.
 So that's another frontier that was open.
 So now it became even bigger.
 So we are thankful to the Lord.
 But now we have here in Singapore, even though I'm not now part of this mission, I'm going
 to another country which is not part of this mission.
 But still I feel very good to be here, to see that it's developing, and to see that
 there are proofs of this mission that we do.
 Also Singapore, of course, it's an economic center, so it's very convenient to fly anywhere
 you want.
 Even in East Timor you can fly direct.
 This airport where I'm at right now, it's very convenient, has flights going everywhere.
 And also it's a very good place for bringing together the East and the West.
 So this meeting place creates for the church also a great opportunity to bring the message,
 to bring the testimony to all the people who live in this big, vast region of Southeast
 Asia, Oceania, Asia, and everywhere else.
 So please pray for these missions here, and we will meet again soon.
 I also need your prayers that my mission trip can be successful.
 May the Lord give you blessing.
 Amen.
