 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am in Sri Lanka and I want to tell you a little bit
 about the development of the mission here.
 If you remember last time I came here in January 2022, this year, and at that time it was five
 people who were baptized in Sri Lanka.
 It was first baptisms in Sri Lanka, on Sri Lanka.
 And from that time it's been ten months already, and we were planning to send priests here
 in March, then in summer, but nobody could come, so eventually there was a very big need.
 And I came now, and I will tell you about my trip next time.
 Today I wanted to tell you about what was going on here for this time during these ten
 months, the development of the mission.
 Maybe you know that Sri Lanka had a very big problem.
 Last time when I came it was COVID, it was the many restrictions with traveling.
 I was coming from Russia, many forms to fill and other things.
 But now there are no restrictions, almost none.
 But the country has experienced big political change, they had a new president, they had
 all those riots, and a big economic crisis, the oil went up, they have power shortage,
 they have groceries shortage, they have all kinds of problems.
 So one of the reasons why I also came is to help provide some basic staples, we had this
 humanitarian relief project for those who had to move from one place to another, displaced
 families and disadvantaged families.
 So that was one of the things that we've done.
 So despite all these problems, all these changes, the mission here developed.
 The mission developed, last time we had five people baptized, five Sri Lankans, one in
 the south and four in the center, the town of Kurunagawa, and that town has the first
 Orthodox community, so the community used to be a charismatic sect which discovered
 the pastor, his name in baptism is Makarios, Orthodox name, he understood that it is a
 sect and the true church, the original faith is the Orthodox faith.
 So he was baptized with his family, and his helper Elijah, they were baptized in a lake,
 and during all this time they were preparing this whole community, so the whole community
 was getting ready to be baptized, it became catechumens, they were doing services in the
 Orthodox way, they were learning how to bake pros for our breaths in the Orthodox way,
 as they used to have in the past, they've organized a student youth group for classes,
 for activities, sisterhood, they've organized a summer school, all this very recent development
 after January, and also with the Lord's help they found a place which is bigger and nicer,
 and it's not in the rural area as before, but they found in the center of Kurunagawa,
 so now they have this church and more people are coming, and this place was given by the
 government for a very low price, maybe three to five times cheaper than the market cost,
 with the Lord's help that this happened.
 So these are some nice developments, other than that they were doing active ministry
 in houses, pastor, former pastor, our missionary now Makarios, who went to houses regularly
 teaching, talking, praying, helping people, so all of that worked, they were also translating
 services, they've translated the Tipika service for Sunday, and I've printed it in Taiwan
 probably here, gave it to people, they were learning to chant, although it doesn't sound
 Orthodox yet, but at least they have a chanter group choir, and also they were doing mission
 in other areas, they went to different places, like in the south, the Skol area, there is
 another place, and other pastors got interested, and they are now willing to see, to talk to
 Orthodox missionaries, and to convert to become Orthodox, that was also one of the reasons
 I had to come, however one pastor in the north, the north is Hindu area, Tamil, the nationality
 is called Tamil, they have their own language, they have their religion, Hinduism, it's different
 from the rest of the country, so in that area we had this pastor, who was very active,
 and we had agreement with him, but somebody came, another heretical community came and
 offered him a nice salary, so he had to leave, he abandoned his path to Orthodoxy and to
 join, so we see the mammon is also working, using money, using resources, to pull people
 away from the true faith, so the mission here is full of challenges, hardships, we have
 some people who got sick, just a son of our Orthodox member Andrew, also former pastor,
 he got sick, he had operation, please pray for him, Aaron, his name is Aaron, and despite
 all these challenges, the mission is developing, it's growing quickly, and so that's why there
 was a need for me to come, and in October Taiwan cancelled these quarantine restrictions,
 so I was able to travel, it became easier, and came here eventually, please pray for
 this mission, for the Orthodox Sri Lankans, please pray for the upcoming mission in India,
 and next time I will tell you more about what I have done, where I have been, hopefully
 we can make also a little video about everything that's going on here this time, may the Lord
 help us, give us this blessing, be strong, be united, and ask him to help us, to help
 us do mission to everyone on this planet, God bless.
