 Dear brothers and sisters, today I am in Filankan, this place is called Nigombo and it's right
 on the beach.
 You can see behind me is the sea, you can see the sound.
 And right in this place we had baptism.
 Just several days ago 33 people were baptized here, Filankans, and the Lord gave me this
 opportunity to come here again and I have a little bit of time to record this video
 to share with you how it went, what happened here.
 On that day it was big, big rain and the waves were huge, like big storms that day.
 So just when we came we could not do anything.
 We arrived in the morning, it was, I don't know, maybe 10, something like that, because
 we were coming from the center of the island.
 We could not find a closer place because the locals, the Buddhists, they create problems.
 So if we do it like one, two people it's okay, but if it's a massive group, baptism,
 they create big problems.
 So we could not do it somewhere else, we had to do it here.
 It's a three hour drive from that place to come here.
 But it happened on that day that it's a big, big rain and when we came we could not do
 it.
 So we were looking for the spot where we could find it and we found it right here nearby.
 It was under construction here, constructing some kind of hole full of some construction
 stuff and we had to clean it.
 So it took some time and eventually we've done the baptism.
 So that day was like a day of challenge, a big, big day of challenge.
 We also were missing some stuff that we needed and just the last moment we got it.
 So it was all like one big challenge that day.
 So this also tells us about the challenge that we have as Christians.
 We take up the cross of the Lord and it's hard.
 If we really want to become true Christians, it's going to be a storm.
 A lot of temptations, sorrows, pains.
 So that day was very symbolic in that sense.
 Today is like paradise.
 So it took us about six to seven hours from start to finish.
 By the time we were done it was already dark.
 You can see from the photos.
 So the whole day we spent here.
 We were doing baptism at about twelve children and adults.
 So we had to do everything, anointing everyone in the canonical way, and accrysmation and
 everything.
 So all the procedure took us all day.
 People were fasting, they did not eat anything, it was quite a challenge.
 But I think everybody is going to remember this day.
 Everyone was also feeling happiness.
 It was something we've expected for a year almost.
 So here we went to find a place to do the baptism.
 So we were traveling with this whole big crowd.
 We went on that side.
 Waves are way too high.
 They're just blowing you up.
 We couldn't do it of course in this lake because the fish are looking at us because it's too
 shallow and dirty.
 So we found a place on the other side, some distance from here.
 And eventually we've done the baptism there.
 Also every person was held by at least two people, me and another man.
 Even three of us sometimes were blown away by the waves.
 But eventually everyone got baptized.
 It was a lot of a challenge.
 But with the blessing of the Lord, everyone was baptized, everyone was Christmated.
 After I gave them some presents from the church, icons, name icons, whoever's names I had,
 I brought for every name, crosses, prayer robes.
 We really became one family.
 After that we had some little snack here.
 They have like a barbecue right here.
 And this was the first massive group baptism that we've done in Sri Lanka.
 It's a great blessing.
 I cannot express.
 And I really hope that this is just the beginning of something really great.
 By now we already have the government registration commission.
 We've visited several pastors in the area.
 We went to the south.
 Today we met two pastors here in Negombo, they have some conference.
 We went to other places, Anamatua, spreading the seed.
 Many people there, some are thinking, but many already have made this decision.
 This time I also went to the south, maybe I'll make a video about it.
 It's a community that has maybe 200 people that had a great challenge.
 This year the Buddhists, they came, because they were building a church, they decided
 to build a church.
 And this community is getting ready to become Orthodox.
 That's why we went there.
 And there is nothing else Christian in that area, only Buddhists.
 And very strong monastery, very strong Buddhist monastery, and the villagers are quite aggressive.
 So they came and they were screaming at them, and then they were beating them.
 There was a fight going on.
 And the government was on the side of these Buddhists.
 So it was a great, great challenge.
 And I think the Lord led them to the true faith through all these challenges.
 So many things are going on here in Sri Lanka.
 The workers are few, the harvest is plenty, the workers are few.
 And the workers who can come here, are willing to come here are even fewer.
 This creates a big pain in my heart, and I really hope that we have more missionaries,
 more people willing to abandon whatever they have to abandon, and come here, many other
 countries and do the true mission, to bring the faith, to inspire others to repent and
 to live Christian life, to abandon every sin and come forward.
 So let us pray.
 Please pray for the mission here in Sri Lanka.
 Pray for my mission, I this time also have a mission in India.
 I will say more about it later in other videos.
 I need your prayers.
 People here need your prayers.
 We pray for each other.
 Please be strong and hope to see you again.
 God bless.
