 Dear brothers and sisters, I'm back to Taiwan, back from Sri Lanka and India.
 The mission there is developing, is going on.
 If you are interested in the mission in India, leave a comment and I will also record video about India.
 Well, I came back and today I want to share with you some thoughts about what's going on.
 People becoming more and more brainwashed and what's going on between Russia and Ukraine with this war.
 Where are things going and how do we prepare for what's coming and what might be coming?
 Well, first of all, I want to say that whenever we are talking about Antichrist or some agenda of the devil,
 it's not cosporology in that sense that it's some fake fantasies.
 The Apostle Paul says that the mystery of the lawlessness is working, it's going on in the process.
 And the Lord himself calls the devil a prince of this world.
 Where is he? Where is he? It's not evident.
 So whenever we are talking about it, it sounds cosporological, but this is reality, spiritual reality.
 And another mistake that people make is that we are talking about this evil stuff.
 We believe that it's almighty, this evil is almighty, it's controlling all governments, it's controlling everything.
 Well, no, it's not almighty.
 It's not almighty because for 2000 years they are unable to reach the goal that they had.
 So it's not almighty.
 And it's more than 2000 years.
 From the beginning of humanity there was already this idea of controlling the whole world.
 The devil had this idea and of course he inspired people.
 This spirit of Leviathan, this monster that has this power, has been everywhere, including here in China.
 The Xin Shi Huang, the emperor who united before China, he also had those things. He killed wise people, he implemented this legalism, this new philosophy that only power can solve all the problems, control everything.
 It's something similar to technocrats who want to have this AI control the whole world.
 He had this idea more than 2000 years ago in BC, 200 BC, a long time ago.
 So now for that many years they are unable to reach their goal.
 Will they do it now during our lifetime?
 Maybe yes, maybe no.
 But the main question is not this.
 The main question is what is going to be with us?
 What are each and every one of us?
 What are we going to contribute to this world?
 If the Antichrist comes during our lifetime, what are we going to be like at that time?
 Are we going to be spiritually strong, united with Christ, having peace in our heart, having love towards everyone?
 Because now even when we talk about this stuff and evil people, many Christians got angry, they became gay, they have hatred, they want to kill somebody or do something about it.
 So this is also alienating ourselves from Christ, being separate from Him, if we don't have love in our hearts.
 So what is going to be with us health-wise?
 Are we going to be ruined by the lifestyle that we have?
 So we won't be able to do anything against this new government, new system that he's going to implement.
 So the big problem for each and every one of us is what's going to be with us at that time, at that point.
 I don't know how many years down the road.
 And if we don't make it till then, it is important that we bring the experience, the wisdom, the spiritual legacy to our children, to people around us,
 to those people who later will be facing those delusions and those realities.
 So this is what the Lord is expecting from every one of us.
 And to have that, we need to be united with God in prayer, in the Holy Community, not just reading the Bible.
 We read, yes, we believe something, but if we're not united with Him, then we will be deceived and become just one of those heresies, hundreds of thousands of heresies out there who all sort of believe in Christ.
 But this is nothing. For the devil, it's not an obstacle.
 They live in delusion, so that's why they get into syncretism, ecumenism and eventually one world religion of the Antichrist.
 So that's another question.
 The question now is, even though he's not Almighty, it looks like he's getting there.
 He's coming closer to his goal right now.
 What are the signs? One of the signs I already mentioned.
 Total brainwashing.
 People believe.
 So many people were told this threat with the virus is so terrible and people will guess this.
 So easy to be brainwashed.
 Then now we have this war thing. Half of the people believe this, half of the people believe the opposite.
 And both are brainwashed.
 So that's why they fight.
 Many people are ready to die for that.
 And when you discover that both of those narratives are brainwashing, you will be surprised to live in a world that becomes like a zombie land.
 This is one of the signs that people are hacked and people are easy to embrace whatever they will be given.
 Eventually, of course, the world is so bad, everything is so bad, but now the Savior comes and He brings peace, He brings health, He brings everything.
 Why not? Everybody has to receive this new system.
 So this is another sign that we're not too far from that.
 Another sign is that the governments, and I would say most of the governments, even not all,
 now people say yes, now we have a government, they pray, we have Putin, we have this, they are fighting.
 This is a game, this is a theater.
 Behind all these governments there are just instruments, instruments of Antichrist.
 Willingly, unwillingly, knowingly, unknowingly.
 But behind all this is the spirit of Antichrist.
 Very often sinners, they do sins, even not understanding why they do it.
 They're just driven by some force.
 And I've talked about it before that many of them are occultists.
 They are really looking for some kind of motivation, inspiration, coming from some mystical sources, which we know are down below, coming from hell.
 So they don't have to be so smart.
 We know that Antichrist himself, he will be genius of geniuses.
 But many people who become part of this, part of this big game, they are not so well coordinated, like one system, and they go no.
 But they are driven by some sin, by passions, by being hacked.
 So this is also relating to the governments.
 So I believe the governments in now both sides of this conflict, of this war thing, they're both doing the same thing.
 Behind them, maybe they even have some collusion behind the scenes.
 Maybe yes, maybe no. I don't insist.
 I think yes.
 From what I saw when I went to the war zone, from many things, I think that there is a collision.
 But leave this question open. But there is Antichrist behind both of them.
 So there is no night of light on either side.
 And the third, which is more difficult to understand.
 The third is that Antichrist is creating anti-reality.
 The reality that it's real, but it's against truth.
 It's not true. It's real, but it's not true.
 Because true is what's truth.
 So this may be a deep philosophy, but put it simple.
 They make the world processes, economic, social, technological, information.
 They shape it.
 They make it so that everything is pushing towards the kingdom of Antichrist.
 And it seems subjective. Yes, it's economy. Yes, it's society.
 It's opinion.
 Well, you see why the world was rejected.
 Because society was against it.
 So from the ancient times, why most of Christians when they believe Jesus,
 the whole family says, "No, you're crazy. This is fanatism. What are you talking about?"
 This is reality that they live in.
 And that's real, but it's not truth. It lives in delusion.
 So somebody who discovered truth, he understands that, "Oh, no, this is lying.
 This is the way they think, the way they live. It's all lying.
 Sorry for this noise. It's maybe some garbage truck outside."
 So now this anti-reality becomes more and more real.
 With the advancement of, in the recent times it was propaganda, ideology.
 That people they were going because we can see it's Nazi or some others.
 Everybody goes like driven by one spirit.
 That was one of these manifestations of this anti-reality.
 Then people all brainwashed and they do crazy things.
 We have this in Soviet Union. We have it in many places.
 So now this becomes global and more and more totalitarian.
 That people lose their own will.
 And it will be more.
 Going to metaverse, going to virtual reality and many other things.
 Neuralink is going in that direction, fast.
 And I'm not against technology.
 I am against using technology for the agenda of Antichrist.
 So the spirit of delusion. You can see it. Just look around.
 If you discover that what you hear in the newspapers, no matter if they take one side or another side.
 If you can see that this is fake, very likely that you are either smart or that you are with Christ.
 And the spirit of Christ is telling you, no, that's fake.
 The Antichrist himself, he will be like a savior. He will be like Christ.
 He will present himself as a savior.
 But only people who have that gift from the Lord will say, "No, there is something wrong with this."
 "There is something wrong with this."
 Everybody thinks, "No, no, no, this is great. This is it. This is it."
 Receive him or accept it.
 You'll be a member of society. You'll be able to do everything.
 Just get the tattoo on your hand or on your ear.
 And fine, you can buy, you can sell, you can live, you can do whatever you want.
 But only very few will say, "No, this is fake."
 And I'm willing to sacrifice everything not to receive this stuff.
 Well, those people will be few and most of them will become martyrs.
 So just get ready for that.
 Let us be always with the Lord.
 Let us have this spiritual opposition to all the delusion and all what's going on.
 Not to be tricked, neither by politics nor by economics, some sustainable development,
 some other ecological agenda, some other things.
 They are used as tools, as instruments of manipulation.
 May the Lord give us his peace, his wisdom, his blessing,
 and help us overcome all kinds of delusion and evil, I mean.
 Lord bless.
