 Dear Brothers and Sisters, we see how much evil there is in this world and even more
 is coming.
 The world is facing a big global crisis and it can happen very suddenly, maybe next year,
 we don't know exactly when, but it's going to be much worse than we had, including this
 sickness, the war and everything else.
 Of course, to talk about evil in this world, first of all, we need to see evil in ourselves.
 We need to repent and we need not to blame others.
 The whole world is corrupt, society is corrupt, politics, government is corrupt, everything
 is so bad, I am the best.
 No.
 If we want to talk about these things, first of all, we need to repent deeply and to see
 that we ourselves are the reason why all these things are happening.
 Me.
 This is how we should feel.
 This is because I have not done what the Lord was giving me to do.
 I did not become a great saint that could inspire everyone and to do great things so
 that the world could be different.
 I did not do all of those things.
 Every one of us is guilty.
 And also when we see things happening, we should blame Tevo who is behind it, not individual
 people who become just his servants, blinded or inspired by him.
 So today I want to say about why this evil is approaching and is getting worse and eventually
 will have the Antichrist at some point.
 Why is this happening?
 Basically, this is happening not because evil becomes stronger, it becomes because the goodness,
 the righteousness becomes less and less and weaker and weaker.
 So for example, if we have some pervert, some really ugly minded person, pedophile or whatever
 - when he is doing something bad, of course, he is in some darkness, nobody can see.
 But if he comes on the street, he is in some public place, then he will dress properly,
 he will behave properly, especially if he works in some place which he is expected to
 be polite, to be nice to people and to have no decent look.
 He'll do all these things, because everybody else is expecting this, but it doesn't mean
 that this is how he is.
 So now, this is what the Apostle Paul is saying about this mystery of the lawlessness.
 This mystery comes from its disguise in itself.
 So these people who are proposing, who are pushing this agenda, they have that plan long
 ago and they are willing to implement it as soon as possible, anytime, but they are afraid
 of people not receiving, not embracing all this stuff.
 The people are going to say "no, we don't want this".
 So they always live in this fear, you can imagine, they always have this fear and frustration
 from not being able to do what they desire to do.
 These very miserable people, they suffer every day from this.
 So it is really torture by the devil to become in that kind of role.
 You never want to be there, and no matter how much money they have or how much power
 they have, this is a miserable life and of course eternal condemnation, because they
 become enemies of Christ, enemies of Truth.
 And wherever there is Christ, there is Truth, there is righteousness, there is Kingdom of
 Heaven, there is victory over every evil, every demon.
 So this is important, if we live with Christ, if we are filled with righteousness, everything
 around us is going to change, and it is going to be much more difficult for the evil to
 do what he wants to do.
 We can also think about going to church, for example, you went to church, you prayed for
 a few hours, you repented your sins, you were hearing the Holy Gospel.
 If this is real, if it is not hypocrisy, if you really pray and come out of this church,
 you will be unlikely to do some filthy stuff right away, something bad right away.
 Maybe after some time our corrupt self comes up and we have despondency, we have greed,
 we have anger, we have lust, we have accusing everybody, we have all kinds of stuff, arrogance,
 all those things maybe coming up, but it won't be right away, because we are losing
 Christ and we are losing the Spirit of God, and we go back to this evil that is coming
 back to our heart.
 This tells us that only with Christ we can conquer all kinds of evil.
 Having said this, we should think about what is coming and how to get ready.
 People hear now news, one news is worse than another, there is economic crisis, there is
 war, there is some possibility of hunger, all kinds of problems that are coming, etc.
 Many people when they hear this every day, they think "I'm fed with this, I just
 don't want to participate in all this anymore, I just cut, I just do my stuff, I have my
 own project and finish".
 Is this the right choice?
 There are two motivations, depending on which motivation you have, this choice may be right
 or wrong.
 How do we tell what is the motivation?
 We tell by the stuff that you're going to do, if you want to withdraw from this life,
 what are you going to do?
 Are you going to just focus on your own personal life, your hobbies, vacation, enjoy and live
 peacefully and don't touch anyone, and that's it.
 If this is the motivation, this is the plan, this is escaping, trying to run away, not
 willing to face the reality and this evil, not willing to fight with all this evil.
 This is not the right choice, because this is spiritual sleep and we just become corpses,
 like dead men walking, like zombies, because we run away from painful things and then they
 will still happen, all these changes that they want to do, they're going to happen,
 be it war, be it whatever, be it this digital control, this will happen and you will embrace
 it and you will be enslaved by that thing.
 So this is the wrong path.
 The right motivation, if you want to escape, is to enter into spiritual life, to ascetism,
 to go to monastery and pray, read the gospel, study theology, focus on prayer, fasting,
 ascetism, pursuing Jesus Christ.
 If this is the goal, then yes, it will be helpful if you just cut away from this stuff
 and it's not going to be like a noise that is distracting you.
 You can focus on pursuing God and he will reveal to you everything you need to know
 and to do and you won't get asleep.
 This is a special calling.
 Of course, some people have a calling to fight within this world, to bring testimony about
 truth, to overthrow the plans of the devil and stuff like that.
 So that's another calling, another mission that people have.
 So depending on what is your mission, what is your calling, but you need to be a soldier
 of Christ.
 This should be the goal.
 It should not be just, okay, I just run away, I just put my hand in the sand and finished.
 So what could happen?
 I think what could happen is they can shut down the whole planet and say, okay, to be
 saved from this, we have to receive the electronic currency.
 There is no other choice.
 Just everybody has to have it.
 And then it can be total control, whatever you spend, whatever you do, social rating
 and many, many other things.
 It's going to be in the new world order, the new version, of course.
 And I think that it's going to be not gradual, it's going to be like big time event.
 Of course, now they're preparing, they're getting people ready, themselves, they're
 getting ready so that it can be global everywhere, total, at the same time.
 And they will persuade everybody that this is the only solution for all our problems.
 And no matter where you are, if you are in Russia, they will tell you to win in this
 war, we need to have this.
 You are not in Russia, you're somewhere else.
 They will say, you are in crisis, to get out of this crisis, you have to have this, this
 is the only way.
 And everybody is going to believe and everybody is going to be happily accepting this stuff.
 And the world is going to slip into that slavery.
 So what to do?
 This is another big question.
 What can we do about this?
 We need to be spiritually strong.
 We need to see that that is a lie, if that happens.
 But at some point, that's going to happen.
 And to be able to sacrifice things, maybe a career, maybe property, maybe something
 else.
 Right now there is an earthquake, as I'm speaking to you, you can see everything is shaking.
 Just right at this moment, earthquake, okay.
 So hopefully no matter how big the earthquake that is coming, we will stand firm in Christ
 with Him in righteousness.
 May the Lord be with us, give us His blessing, help us in our spiritual life, help us clean
 our hearts from all the impurities, from all the evil that there is in it, and to be loyal
 to Him till the end, no matter what.
 May this be so, I mean, God bless.
