 Dear brothers and sisters, I'd like to wish you all a happy and blessed new year.
 Today I want to share with you some wishes for the new year and some thoughts that I
 have at this time.
 As we enter into this new year, we have some expectations.
 There is something positive in the new beginning.
 Now every time we write some date, we'll write 2023, it brings something new to our life.
 But of course for us the important is not the day or the year.
 For us it's important that everything is dedicated to the Lord.
 So I really wish that this time we can open a new page in our life.
 And this new page will record new fruits that we bring to the Lord.
 New fruits of faith.
 Let us look back to the Old Testament time when the people of Israel were making this
 covenant with the Lord and the new people were invited to join this covenant.
 The way they've done it is that they've gathered those people and someone would say
 out loud some commandment, say not to kill, do not kill, anyone who kills is cursed.
 And the people would answer amen, they would confirm, they would say their commitment that
 now they enter into this covenant.
 And whoever does keep this commandment is receiving the Lord's blessing.
 And everything is about the Lord's blessing and the Lord's curse.
 So this new year, are we going to have the Lord's blessing with us?
 Or we'll have that curse?
 Whenever people commit sin, they disobey command, be it Old Testament command, be it the New
 Testament command, where we need to sacrifice our whole soul for Christ and follow Him.
 And we don't do this.
 When we disobey this, we are cursed.
 We don't have the Lord's blessing and we fall out of this covenant.
 And in such miserable state, we exist and we die and we perish.
 And all the tribulations falling upon this world is because of that, because people break
 the commandment.
 If they leave according to the Old Testament morality and they break it, this brings God's
 curse.
 If they proclaim that they've entered into the Christian covenant, into the new covenant,
 and they break this covenant, that brings another curse from the Lord.
 Not because He hates us, but because He is faithful to His covenant.
 And this is what is given in this covenant.
 And we know that the Lord's love is both mercy and righteousness and judgment.
 It is just, this is something that we're supposed to get and together with God's mercy, it comes
 love.
 So the love can be expressed in punishment as well.
 So this is some basic thoughts that I have.
 I really hope that every one of us can find that we are in this state of brokenness, that
 we are in these shackles, both mentally, in the Old Testament, in the Old Man, not Old
 Testament, in the old life, we're still in those shackles.
 Our heart is full of passions, full of desires, addictions.
 It's not free.
 It is in that old state, old me.
 We need to break away from this.
 May this new year become for us liberation from all these things, both mental, both in
 our motivations, in what we love, what we desire, that we discover that the righteousness
 and life in Christ is higher and more precious than anything else on earth.
 May this be our guiding rule and vision for this coming new year.
 And this is so important because what is happening now in the world is basically we now clearly
 see the two actors behind all these complicated political, economic, social issues.
 There are two actors standing behind, real actors.
 One of them is our Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior, the Son of God, who came to this world
 and brought salvation and is expecting people to enter into the union with him into this
 supper, this eschatological supper with him in receiving his body and blood and living
 according to his commandments.
 At the same time, we have this another actor whom Jesus called the prince of this world,
 the maman, or holy fathers call him the antichrist, whose spirit is always out there.
 And behind maman stays satan himself.
 And what we see now is that almost all the nations, all the people in every nation, they
 serve maman, including ourselves.
 If we are honest, we can see that we ourselves by sitting, by living without strong faith,
 by not following Christ every day, every moment of our life, we choose maman.
 We need to see this in ourselves first.
 And then we see it in this world big time.
 And these two actors now become more and more evident.
 Just today, the great monastery of the Kiev Labra.
 You probably heard of this monastery of Kiev caves, which was established more than 1000
 years ago because thousands of holy people come out of this monastery.
 Today it's been forbidden for the monks to pray and to hold divine services in the main
 part of this monastery, the so-called higher labra.
 Today is forbidden.
 It's been open since Soviet times for more than 30 years.
 When I was a child, maybe 10 years old, I went there to pray.
 And all these years, every day, the church was praying there.
 But beginning today, beginning from today, stop, finish, go out, chasing away.
 No, no services, no liturgy, nothing.
 Why?
 Yes, they bring a lot of political reasons, this and that.
 But the real reason is Antichrist is chasing the church.
 He's trying to get rid of the church so that she cannot do her ministry openly.
 So these evil things are coming out now.
 Antichrist is unmasking, he's taking out this mask and now coming.
 So it's quite troubling times this new year.
 We should not have rosy picture that everything is getting better and many punishments are
 still coming, economic, political, on the whole world.
 Orthodox countries, non-Orthodox countries are going to be punished big time because
 of those reasons which I mentioned, that people massively fall off, go away, choose something,
 choose mammon.
 And we should not have too much sorrow about this.
 Something similar to Sodoma and Homura, everybody there were living in sin.
 But only one righteous man, Lot, and his family, they were worthy of living out from this city
 which was destroyed.
 We have to become this Lot.
 We should not say everybody is like this, I am like this also.
 We should not be polluted by this world that we live in.
 We should understand that whatever we believe in, whatever we feel, most of it is our old
 man product of this society, of this world.
 We need to get rid of it to drop this down.
 And even with Lot, his wife, she liked that city because it was nice, she had this attachment,
 so she looked back even though the Lord said don't look back.
 So we should not look back on everything that is unworthy, that is not related to Christ
 in any sense, in any way, from our past life.
 This is the thing to think about at this time when we enter into the new year.
 Like the Holy Apostles, when they began preaching in the Holy Gospel, they write only what happened
 after they made Christ.
 These are memoirs, recollections of the apostles, the gospels, but they did not write it from
 their childhood.
 What did I do when I was a child, this and that.
 No, all of that is irrelevant.
 Even for Peter who was quite old at that time, he understood that all his life before
 meeting Christ was irrelevant, was not important, had no value.
 So we should also not have any attachment to those past things, past ways of life.
 We now live for Christ, with Christ, searching for him, trying to please him in everything
 we do.
 Let us have this goal, aim for this in this new year that is coming, that even if everything
 is falling apart, everything is dropping, we will be with the Lord like the righteous
 man and have his blessing with us, abiding upon us.
 May this be so, may he strengthen our faith, keep us in his covenant, renew our heart,
 renew our soul, do this miracle of restoring, of reviving, of liberating our soul from all
 the evil that it has, because he is the sole savior and only with him we can preserve ourselves
 in truth and in his blessing.
 May the Lord be with us, give us wisdom, give us his guidance, protect us and help us, help
 us on this path, to find this path and to love it from all our heart.
 Amy, the Lord's blessing be with you and your family and your friends in this new upcoming
 year.
