 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas. Where does this joy of
 Christmas come from? It doesn't come from successful shopping or nice restaurant
 celebration. No, this joy comes from the salvation that's brought by our Lord.
 However, most people, most of us, we don't feel this joy. If we be really honest
 to ourselves, we see that we celebrate Christmas because we are supposed to
 celebrate. And also because we like to hear nice music, to have beautiful
 decoration, to have these traditions. But we don't really understand the deep
 spiritual meaning and this spiritual reality that is coming. Not on the
 emotional level, but on a deep spiritual level. How to know? Well, right after
 celebrating Christmas, we might be same as always. We have all our problems, we
 have all our concerns, we're back to this whirlwind of troubles, problems, fears,
 and we're already thinking about the next celebration. Here in Taiwan is the
 Chinese New Year, so right after Christmas people get ready for the
 Chinese New Year. Okay, the new next thing is coming, everybody is now focused on
 something else. Well, the church is fasting for 40 days before the
 Christmas. And the meaning of this land, this Advent land, is to prepare our
 hearts to receive the Lord, to have him be born in our hearts. Not just celebrate
 what happened 2,000 years ago, but to have this reality happen now. So we are reborn,
 we are renewed, we are healed by the peace of Christ that is coming into our
 hearts. First of all, let us take a look at what the Apostle is telling us.
 Apostle Luke, in Gospel of Luke chapter 2 verse 36, beginning verse 36, this is
 regarding the Simeon who was taking baby Jesus on his hands, and he is saying to
 Mary and Joseph. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which
 were spoken of him, of Jesus. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary his
 mother, "Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising of many in Israel,
 fall of many and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be
 spoken against, yet a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also, that the
 thoughts of many hearts may be revealed." Very mysterious words, very mysterious
 words. Well, first of all, so the Lord is coming, isn't he coming to save everyone?
 Why for fall of many? Many are gonna fall because of his coming. So it's not gonna
 be that fun for them who fall. And also he says that the sword will pierce their
 own heart. It's also not very joyful prophecy that the sword is gonna pierce
 your heart. So there is something strange here. Well, we need to think deeply. First
 of all, we need to stop and think that Christmas, nativity of Christ, is a
 mystery. It is something that is not self-evident. It's not that simple. Okay,
 yes, there is God. Now he came on earth. This is a good thing. He's gonna solve our
 problems. He's gonna help us, save us. Alleluia! Let's celebrate this thing. Okay,
 you got it? Simple, straightforward. We're done,
 finished celebrating. Okay, move on. It's not that simple. It is a mystery. It is a
 mystery that God has accomplished, has achieved once in the whole history of
 mankind, of the world, the universe. Happened only one time - birth of the Son
 of God, Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the Savior. This event was promised from the
 beginning to Adam and Eve, and all these thousands of years people were
 expecting, were getting ready for this event to happen. And it happened, and
 after that it changed the whole world, and we are now living in this new
 reality after the birth of Jesus Christ. This is why we're counting years A.D.,
 Anno Domini, Year of the Lord. So let us think about these two things, actually
 about three things. Okay, the first thing is why for the fall of May? What does it
 mean? The second thing - why the sword is gonna pierce your heart that he told to
 Saint Mary? And the third thing, which is related, is why he didn't come and just
 openly say to everyone, "I am Messiah, I'm the Savior, the promised one whom
 everybody was expecting for these many hundreds of years, here I am. Okay, now I'm
 gonna show you the way, I'm gonna take you to you be united with God, I'm gonna
 solve your problem. So, okay, straightforward, no need for any
 difficulty searching for me, here I am. Okay, just come and everything is
 gonna be fine, because I'm God himself." Well, he didn't do it that way. Okay, first
 of all, for the fall of May, we can also take a look at the prophet
 Isaiah. Chapter 7 to 9 are talking about the coming of the Lord, the
 nativity. So really I recommend all of you to read these days, to read both in
 narration about Messiah in Matthew, in Luke, and also about Messiah. And also
 Isaiah chapters 7 through 9, okay. In chapter 8 we read such words, okay,
 8, 14, 15. So he is prophesizing about the coming of the Lord and he says, "And he
 shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of offense
 to both the houses of Israel. And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be
 broken, and be snared, and be taken." It's quite a fearful prophecy about
 stumbling of some people upon arrival of Messiah. Well, to get a clue why they
 stumbled, let's think about Herod, okay. When he heard that Christ, the
 anointed one, the Messiah, the promised Messiah is coming, the king of Israel, he
 came, he was told by those Magi, and he really took it seriously. So he really
 believed that that's true, that's true. Now Messiah came, so he's
 gonna rule, he's gonna take over. So what is his reaction, okay? What is his
 reaction? He wants to kill him, he is gathering all his might, okay. He is
 sending people to destroy everyone in Bethlehem, okay. He doesn't care that it's
 his own city, his own people, no, kill everybody. They kill 14,000 babies, okay.
 Well, think about his logic, okay. He is already not so young, okay. He came to
 power, he is maybe over 50, I don't know. And now baby Jesus, baby Messiah is
 coming. Well, isn't it logical, you get older and then you just give over the
 reign to Messiah, okay. Why not? You cannot rule forever, you're not, okay, you're not
 immortal. No, I gain this power, it's for me, it's mine. I give it to my son, I don't
 give it to Messiah. Oh, I don't give it to the someone who is sent by God, it's not
 according to my plan. So that was the mindset of Herod. Well, and it's not only
 Herod, okay. If we look back to the time of Moses, okay, Moses is coming down
 from this mountain and people are already worshipping this golden calf,
 okay. Everybody, all right away. He went, oh, too slow, so let's worship the golden
 calf, okay. The Lord got angry, Moses got angry, he broke this
 stone's inscriptions with inscriptions tablets. Then we see
 similar things happening in the times of prophets, in times of David. He says
 everybody is saying where is your God, why he's not telling, helping, but I know
 that my God is with me. So it's all the time people, they don't really trust God,
 they don't really see him to be so manifest, to answer what they want, okay.
 They pray, they don't get it, okay, they give up. He is not real God because he's
 not helping the way we asked him and it's something strange, okay. So there is
 this hiding of true God which happened throughout history, throughout all
 testimony, and there is this tendency of Israel to worship anything but true God,
 anything that is related to prosperity, to some rich life, fruitfulness of earth,
 those fake gods, those Baal and others, Astarte and other gods. And by
 the time of the Lord, when he came, those scribes and priests and leaders, they
 were all busy, busy with planning how to liberate the Judea from Romans, how
 to do this, do that, okay. They had no political agenda, they were, he's
 criticizing them, he's saying you love silver, you're hypocrites, you like
 you're vainglorious, you like to be praised by people, you like your status,
 you like to control, okay. So they were searching anything but God. And it's us,
 okay. Today it's about us, okay. We need to be critical and without any rosy
 glasses, okay. We are interested in anything but God. We are worried about
 anything but not about pleasing God or displeasing him. God is God.
 Anytime I can go, repent, heal, recover. So it's okay, he's gonna wait. Now I have
 this, this, that, I have so many important things I need to do, I have my plans, I
 have this, I have that, I have my family, my career, some things I am
 attracted to, I want to buy, I want to sell, I want this. Okay, we are
 worrying about these things. We are worried about economics, about politics,
 about our future, about the environment, about everything, but we are not worried
 about how the Lord is gonna look at us. And the fear of the Lord is the only
 fear that we can have, that we should have. And then everything else for us
 becomes, okay, becomes a piece of cake. We don't have to worry too much about other
 things, if we worry about God and how to serve him and to please him. So this is
 why the Lord, he is giving freedom to people. If you love me, if you love the
 truth, if you are searching for the truth, if you are ready to sacrifice yourself,
 everything for me, for God, who you don't see, who doesn't, maybe it
 doesn't help you whenever you want, but it's the true God, okay, and
 whatever he decides, whatever he does, that's gonna be what counts. I know what
 I want, what I don't want. If you're ready to follow such God, unpredictable,
 mysterious, sometimes maybe you don't think he is just, he is fair, if you are
 ready unconditionally to follow him, then he will reveal himself to you, then you
 will discover who he is and you will really appreciate that he is coming to
 this world. You will see that he is the true Messiah and when you will have joy
 of his coming. You will be among those whom Saint Samuel, he says that rising
 of many, you were in sin, you were in darkness, but now you're rising. So those
 harlots and toll collectors and marginal people, those in leprosy, okay, they got
 healed and they became followers of Christ, those beggars and sinners
 and all those people. Some poor fishermen who, I don't know, in some village they
 were fishing, nobody cared about them, they were nothing, but they became
 everything, they became the followers of Christ. Their hearts were
 completely changed, revived, full of light, full of glory, rising of many. So today
 we want to be numbered among those people. Today we want the Lord to be born in our
 hearts, to reveal to us his light, to give us this belongingness to his flock,
 become his children, sons and daughters, among those few who've entered,
 penetrated into the mystery of his coming. May the Lord's joy and blessing
 be with you at this time of his nativity, so that this Christmas nativity of
 Christ can be merry, can bring joy, celebration to your hearts, to be the
 rock upon which we stand, and that brings to us life, salvation, meaning and
 direction in our lives. I mean, may the Lord's joy and blessing be with you and
 your families upon this Christmas nativity of Christ. I mean, God bless.
