 Dear brothers and sisters, I am now in Belize and I think this will be the only video in English that I will record here in Belize.
 Because my schedule was very tight. It was a 10-day mission trip and it was packed.
 So I didn't really have time to do videos to show you the country because that was not the purpose.
 It was my first mission trip to this country. So it was a very deep responsibility on me to do everything possible to make it happen.
 To kickstart the mission, the church here.
 So I am now in the airport. My flight is coming very soon.
 But still I want to record at least one video exactly from here, from Belize itself.
 I can tell you more about Belize in later videos. But this is the video from Belize itself.
 Just briefly about what happened and what my feeling about the future of the mission here.
 Well, when I came from the first star, the Lord showed me that he is blessing this mission.
 It was a clear message because, well, you see in the whole country of Belize there are only about 20 Orthodox people, 20 Russian people.
 Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian speaking. Full sort of Orthodox. But among them only three adults, three women, they care about pain.
 They really want to come to church and pray and be active parishioners, active Christians.
 Only three people and their children, but only three adults in the whole country.
 And when I came, I came to the hotel, I walked out to do the mission and within 10 minutes I came to one fruit stand, selling fruits.
 And this woman, one of these women, I met her at that fruit stand.
 That is not by coincidence. Things like this don't happen by coincidence.
 So for me, it was a clear sign and they were really craving for faith, for church life.
 I can tell you, not long ago we had the Epiphany, Baptism of the Lord on January 19 and here they were doing the consecration of the water just by themselves to be part of this celebration, of the church celebration and to have holy water.
 There is this way of consecrating the holy water just by laymen.
 So they were really expecting, they were really craving, they needed.
 And right as soon as I came here, the Lord connected us with them and we have baptism here.
 One of the children of another Russian lady got baptized, a young boy, eight years old.
 And we had divine liturgy, maybe one of the first liturgies here in this country.
 And now we have a small community of faithful.
 It's now not just individuals, but they will be celebrating services together.
 I gave them everything they want to do it, the Tipika service on Sundays and on big fees.
 They will get ready for the upcoming Pascha and it's really moving.
 This is the tangible and visible result of my mission here.
 And the mission among the locals, the Belizean, it's not easy.
 Every day I went on mission walks and every day spoke with many people about faith.
 Many people asked me to pray for them, to give them blessing.
 Even some of them wanted to become Orthodox, but not very serious.
 So if I would stay a bit longer, I think, maybe a few months, there would be a local community here.
 But I cannot stay now. I have to go.
 And I hope that these seeds that were spread here, because many people, especially I focus on Belizean seeds, I didn't go to other places in the country.
 But this is good enough for the beginning.
 Many people saw me many times. They were thinking, they are considering, some of them are considering.
 Most people didn't know what is Orthodox, what is Orthodox state. Some knew, but very few.
 So now we have a lot of inquiries, we have a lot of people who are interested.
 And I think this will bring full, this will mature and there will be people who are serious, who are really willing to become Orthodox among the locals eventually.
 Please pray for this mission here in Belize.
 There are many people, they suffer. It's a poor country, but many people are willing to know more about faith, willing to pray, to have spiritual life.
 This place is quite promising in terms of faith.
 It's not like in some countries, which are like, they don't care. People just don't care.
 Here, many people, they do care. They suffer, they have very miserable life.
 Some people, they have social problems. They don't work or they have some sickness or something else.
 But they are, I think the Lord has a plan for them.
 So let us pray for the mission, for the future of the mission here and hope that the light of the true faith, Orthodox faith will shine here stronger and stronger year after year.
 If you have some questions, you want to know more, please write a comment and I will make another video about Belize, about this country, about my experiences in the mission.
 There was a lot of interesting stuff.
 May the Lord give you a blessing.
 Aniruddha.
