 Dear brothers and sisters, I came back to Taiwan, glory be to God, today I want to share
 with you what happened in Belize and my feelings about the future of the mission there.
 And I need to tell you that the Orthodox mission is quite different from other missions in
 the sense that usually it goes against the logic.
 It is either some great motivation, initiatives that someone has and just goes and just does
 it, despite difficulties, despite everything, without any financing, support, he just goes.
 Which is rare.
 Or it is forced, that some Orthodox people are chased away from somewhere, from Russia
 say, in the Soviet times, they are just chased away, they have to flee from the country.
 They come to new places and they establish churches and the most active begin preaching
 to the others, to the local population, which maybe doesn't know anything about Orthodox
 yet.
 So this is normal, for Orthodox mission this is normal, we are not like most of the Catholic
 and Protestant missions, which require, you know, it's like army planning, budgets and
 some support.
 In the colonial times it was supported by the powers, the colonial powers, or it would
 be financed by some big funds and stuff like that.
 So this is one of the reasons why missionaries are few, because it's not really institutionalized.
 We don't have a sound and strong organization, institution that just runs, it has yearly
 budget and it just runs, so it has to educate a big number of new missionaries and just
 send them for practice and stuff like that.
 We don't have that.
 It's not to say that we are against this.
 If we can have that, we have this, say, for the social work, for education, or for even
 book printing, we have structures like that, but for the mission, almost nothing, especially
 for this faraway mission to countries which have nothing.
 So this time I went to Belize also without any funding.
 Even I had to borrow money for the tickets.
 So it was almost like, I don't know, like some thoughtless action.
 But I had the feeling that I just have to do it.
 If I have the opportunity, I just go and just do it.
 And I think I'm sure that the Lord gave his blessing.
 I told you last time that it was a miracle to meet one of the three Orthodox people in
 the whole country.
 One of them I met 10 minutes after getting out of the hotel.
 And the hotel itself was a Taiwanese hotel.
 And the owner met me with kindness, hospitality.
 They helped me, they told me where to go, what to do, gave me everything I was lacking.
 So it was also a good sign.
 And by these signs, I went and I've done as much as I could.
 I was walking on the streets and distributing brochures, talking to people, praying.
 Many people asked for prayers, for blessings, and some wanted to become friends.
 So we made friends with many people.
 And overall assessment, I can say, I can divide these missions into three categories.
 One category is when almost nobody needs anything.
 You come to some country and people, they're fine, it's usually it's wealthy countries,
 it's saturated.
 They seem to know everything, so they don't want to talk about anything.
 So there are sufficient places like Guam or even Mexico.
 And such short missions, they fail, it's just a failure.
 So to develop a mission, well, miracle can happen anytime, but just based on human logic,
 it doesn't work.
 And unless, you know, it's just like super right moment and you meet the right person,
 it's not impossible, but it's highly unlikely.
 So these missions, they require you to leave there for many years.
 And Taiwan is also like that.
 You need to build trust, people need to know you, they observe you for many years and slowly,
 slowly, one here, one there, they are approaching the Orthodox faith and they might become Orthodox.
 There are also countries which are in the middle, where you come and people, they are
 willing to know more, like Belize.
 So in Belize, I had a lot of conversations about faith on the street.
 People are interested and I will explain why.
 And there are countries, of course, where you just come and there is big success.
 Okay.
 Of course you have to have the blessing of the Lord, it has to be the right time also.
 You need some experience to know what to do, how to do that.
 But there is a high chances of success and there could be hundreds or even thousands
 of people, tribes, whole tribe wants to be Orthodox, whole village or clan of people,
 they all say, yes, just tell us what to do, how to believe, we are ready, we want, okay,
 let's build a church.
 So Belize is not a place like that.
 I am very hopeful.
 I think if I go there a few times, like more times, there is a higher chance that we will
 have a stronger presence.
 Now there is already a community, those who used to be, who were Orthodox already, they
 are now united, they want to pray, they want to invite their missionaries to come, I hope
 priest will go there soon.
 So this is a good beginning, but others, locals, they were willing even to become Orthodox,
 some of them, but they say we need a leader, we are lacking someone who would unite us
 spiritually, not to go just to the church in the regular appointed time, during that
 time you participate in some official church event and then you go home and finish.
 They want something which is more interactive, that a pastor really becomes their friend
 and gives them advice in their daily situations and prays together with them about their needs
 and some kind of family, this is what they need, and this is why Protestants are now
 quite successful there, because they are well trained in that kind of mission.
 But originally the country is Catholic actually, the majority is Catholic, but you don't see
 people in the church, almost nobody goes to church, and you might think it's just nominal
 faith, but no, it's actually not too bad in terms of some pagan, you know, this double
 faith, that you're sort of a Catholic, but like East Timor and many other countries,
 Papua New Guinea, where people are sort of, yes, I am Catholic, but I also go and have
 my animism and other local faith in some, I don't know, spirits, in some powers, numbers
 of sacred houses, no, they don't have that, but what they have is that they have what
 I call a folk faith in God, meaning that they care about faith, about prayer, about God,
 but they don't go to church.
 So their faith is alive, but it's only sort of folk level, not church level.
 So they would be willing to talk to you about the Christ and to pray, and it's something
 that is very natural for them, and they are willing to change, to find out, but they don't
 go to church.
 So this is the majority, and most people, many people are like this, and the country
 is about 400,000 people, so it's a small country, but, and it has borders with other countries,
 Mexico, Guatemala, almost Honduras, it's almost, you can say it's a neighboring country, even
 though there might be no land border, I'm not sure, but it's surrounded by other countries,
 other Latin American countries are also very close, like El Salvador and others, Panama,
 and there are people who come there from those countries, you see a lot of them, the Caribbean
 islands, but actually even though it's not an island, it is quite separate, you feel
 like it's a world by itself, in itself, it's a different language, all those surrounding
 countries, they all speak Spanish, but the Belize, they speak English, Belizeans, and
 also after a pandemic, the country was closed, so nobody came, nobody went abroad, almost,
 it's not a tourist destination, like not that many tourists, no immigration, like in recent
 years, there is communication with the United States, of course, but still, it's not that
 close, you don't feel like you're in the States, you feel that it's a small little world, that
 people just live in it, and this is why it's so important to have the Orthodox Church there,
 because people who live in that world, they don't really communicate with others, and
 there is a need for the Church in that country, so I'm very hopeful that we will have, everybody
 knows everyone, it's a small world, and it's very sad that there is no Orthodox Church,
 because everybody would know about it, everybody would find out more about Orthodox if there
 would be at least one Church community in Bibiks, so let us pray, let us pray for this
 mission, let us pray for the Orthodox who are already there, that the Lord may give
 them strength, they don't receive Holy Communion for years, and they really need support, our
 support and prayer, they need missionaries, and I'm really hopeful for that place.
 So this is about it, may the Lord give us His blessing, may the Lord teach us to be
 good witnesses of His faith, that our Christianity is real, and it's alive, may this be so, Amen.
 God bless.
