 Dear brothers and sisters, we live in a time when, according to Apostle Paul, the one who
 is holding off is taken away.
 We remember the mystery of the lawlessness.
 This is the evil plan of pulling the whole humanity into destruction.
 And this plan is called the mystery of the lawlessness.
 There is some mystical secret plan.
 This is biblical conspiratology.
 Apostle Paul is telling us about this conspiracy of the devil against humanity.
 And there is the one who is holding off, and he is taken away already.
 We live in a time when this plan is being accomplished rapidly.
 The two things which are still partly holding off the Antichrist from coming is, first on
 the social level, there are still some remaining elements from the time when these societies
 were either Christian or when these societies were normal human societies with traditional
 values, maybe not Christian, but they had understanding what is marriage, what is sin,
 what is evil.
 These societies, both Christian and pagan, who were living according to conscience, are
 now being transformed for many years already.
 But still, they are not completely perverted yet.
 There is still some social understanding of what is good and what is bad.
 And it is still keeping off this evil to some extent.
 It is getting weaker and weaker.
 And another thing which is keeping off this evil is on the individual level, the individual
 warriors of Christ, people who are awake spiritually and who are standing off, who are fighting
 with the evil both within themselves and in this world.
 And these people are very few.
 And now during the Great Land, we are called to wage this war against the devil.
 So it is very important for us not to get the purpose of this warfare, this struggle
 wrong, because there are many mistakes.
 People who are out of the Orthodox, true church, of course they are completely misoriented.
 They don't have the grace and the union with Christ to receive the grace and revelation
 and power to be able to withstand this.
 So they fall victims of many things, of this blindness, of this deception.
 But unfortunately, even the Orthodox are very often fall victims of this deception.
 And the reason is that the goals are either fake or we take secondary goals and we make
 them the primary goals of this struggle.
 What am I talking about?
 Some people say that the goal is not to sin.
 Well, it is an important goal, but it's not the main goal.
 The more important goal, of course, is to fight with passions, which cause this sin.
 If already we sin, of course we don't talk about other goals if we are already sinners.
 We're sinning on a regular basis.
 We need to do away with this sin and fight with the passions, which cause this sin.
 However, this is not the only goal.
 Some goals, which are also not the primary goals, they include to believe in the true
 way, to remain Orthodox, not to slip away into heresy, into schism, become Protestant
 or Catholic or something else.
 You go away from the Church, from the true faith.
 Well, this is a goal.
 However, this is not the primary goal.
 This is a secondary goal because the Jews of the time of Christ, they were standing
 in the true faith.
 They were Orthodox.
 However, this did not save them from deception and from the blindness of not seeing who is
 the Messiah.
 So they became children of the devil and they were later rejected and they lost this chosenness.
 So it's not enough just to preserve the true faith, that you believe in the right way.
 There is no error, no mistake, no heresy in what you believe.
 Well, as a matter of fact, many Orthodox don't even know what makes them Orthodox.
 What are the errors of other confessions, heretic confessions?
 We need to know this at least.
 But even knowing this is not enough.
 Another common mistake that people say is that the goal is to keep the service, the
 liturgy in the right way.
 Just do everything in the right way.
 Don't stop the liturgy, just go and everything is going to be fine.
 And we saw this during the virus when some churches were locked and people were concerned
 mostly that at least the liturgy has to run.
 Maybe no people can go in the church, but at least the priests, they do the liturgy.
 At least there is this magic connection that makes us united with God.
 It's going on.
 This is the goal.
 This is the purpose.
 Well, of course, it's really bad to stop the liturgy.
 But just keep doing the liturgy is also not, it cannot guarantee us what the victory in
 the spiritual struggle because in the times of the Lord, also there was liturgy done in
 the temple in Jerusalem in the right way and they were continuously doing the right liturgy.
 But still this was not enough for them to receive the grace and to become children of
 God.
 So this is not enough.
 It's important, but it's not enough.
 And now we see how tens of hundreds of thousands of Orthodox die from the virus, from the war,
 from hunger, from many things.
 Why?
 Why is this happening?
 We're asking, did the Lord abandon the church?
 Or maybe the people who call themselves Christians or Orthodox Christians, maybe they were doing
 something not according to the will of the Lord.
 Because if you die as a martyr, this is one thing, this is a great honor and this is a
 gift from the Lord.
 But if you die just from a car accident or just all of a sudden get sick from some stupid
 sickness and you just die without any purpose, without any meaning, I think there was something
 wrong.
 And not that I think, we can find out from the Bible.
 So to understand better the promises of the Lord and what it's going to be like when we
 become His children.
 Let us read Psalm 91, just a few passages.
 Verse one, "He that dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow
 of the Almighty."
 To abide in the shadow of the Almighty means to be in the protection of the Almighty.
 He's protecting you.
 Verse three, "Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler of the hunter
 and from the noise and pestilence."
 For example, the epidemics.
 "He will deliver thee from that, you will not die in that pestilence."
 Verse seven, "A thousand shall fall at thy side and ten thousand at thy right hand."
 You will win over ten thousand people.
 And ten thousand means unlimited number.
 And now we're afraid, "Oh, maybe something is going to happen, I don't have insurance,
 I lose my job, my boss is going to be angry at me, and I'm finished.
 Everything is finished, we're afraid of all that."
 But here he says, "No, you're not afraid, not just one boss, you're not afraid of ten
 thousand enemies who come to kill you, you won't be harmed by that if you abide in the
 shadow of the Almighty."
 He will take on his wings.
 Verse fourteen through sixteen, "Because he has set his love upon me, therefore will
 I deliver him," this is talking about faithful, if he loves the Lord, the Lord will deliver
 him.
 "I will set him on high because he has known my name."
 So the Lord will set you on high if you know his name.
 It's so easy to say, "Just love the Lord, just know his name."
 So easy to say, but how do we become like that?
 "I will be with him in trouble."
 Do we have him in our troubles together with us?
 "With long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation.
 I will give him long life, multitude of days, I will bless him with the longevity."
 No, so many people die 30 years old, 40 years old, priests, bishops, monks, what's the matter?
 And they don't die as martyrs, they die from some stupid thing, from some virus or from
 something else.
 Why?
 Because this psalm is not just giving us, "Oh, this is what's happening, you didn't
 know that you will be covered by the wings of the wind."
 Yes, he covers you by his wings.
 This is like fairy tales, I guess, like some fantastic stories, because it doesn't match
 reality.
 So what's wrong here?
 What's wrong with this psalm and with these promises that we hear about?
 It's not the problem of the Lord.
 It's the problem in us.
 We are spiritually asleep.
 We don't want to wake up.
 We want to be brainwashed by what we hear, to live as everybody else.
 And everybody else, of course, they worry about everything on this planet.
 And we worry, because we don't trust the Lord.
 So we're worried about losing our job, about having a fight with our spouse, about so many
 things.
 Because we don't trust the Lord.
 We need to learn how to trust Him.
 We need to awaken our heart and love Him and search for His truth and His righteousness
 and His will every day from morning till night.
 This can make us children of Christ, not just observance of the Lord, not just keeping the
 right faith.
 This is very suitable for sleeping, for spiritual sleep.
 Okay, now I know I'm Orthodox, so I have the right faith.
 Okay, now I know I do divine liturgy, everything in the right way.
 I'm fine.
 Everything is fine.
 So I just go to sleep.
 I don't have to worry about anything.
 And we become alienated from God.
 Our prayer becomes just reading some mantra, okay, just reading some.
 Our faith becomes like superstition.
 So many people say, "Oh, what will happen?"
 Now we have the big monastery in Kiev, the government is about to chase away the monks.
 And people are saying, even some of the monks and priests, they say, "Well, what will happen,
 what the Lord will give, it will happen."
 This is spiritual sleep.
 The Lord, He can change everything if you trust in Him, if you rely upon Him, a thousand
 will fall from your side, ten thousand.
 If you trust in Him, if you hope in Him, if you don't, of course, a thousand.
 Just one person will come and he'll kill you.
 So it's not about whatever he decides, that's going to be the case.
 But we just go and we fall asleep, we keep sleeping.
 This is the logic.
 This is like we run away, it's a capitulation, we surrender, we surrender to the evil by
 saying everything is going to be like God decides.
 This is believing in the fortune, which is paganism.
 So this is the problem that we have.
 Let us awake, let us set this goal that we wake up spiritually, that we kill off our
 passions, that we fight with our own sins and bad habits, that we are striving to learn
 more about the Lord, about His will, do something to minister Him, to live according to His
 commandments every day, accumulate the treasures in heaven.
 May the Lord help us, give us this understanding why we fast, what struggle, what spiritual
 warfare is.
 We feel this evil power trying to seduce, trying to be against us.
 Satan means the one who is opposing God and His church, those who are alive in His church,
 not those who are sleeping who are fine because they persuade themselves that everything is
 fine and of course no need to oppose them because they are asleep.
 May the Lord help us and give us His blessing, give us strength, give us revelation, give
 us spiritual growth during this land and victory over all adversaries.
 Amen.
 God bless.
