 Dear brothers and sisters, we are now in the Great Land, and this time is a time of deep repentance for the whole Church and deep sorrow.
 And this is also a time of great fight with the evil and temptations which are coming.
 But this year the temptation is great, it's really big for the Church.
 A few days ago we learned that the government of Ukraine is planning to take away the monastery of Kyiv Labra and to throw out the monks, more than 200 monks, priests, and also the seminary and academy.
 Kyiv Theological Academy from the monastery, which is now situated in this monastery.
 Myself, I have studied, I have graduated from the Kyiv Theological Seminary, and I lived in the monastery for some time.
 I have a very deep attachment to this place, and I know what is the life there, what is it like, I know the problems that existed there.
 And today I want to share with you my thoughts about why this is happening, how should we react, and what will happen eventually.
 Well, now in the time when the world is rushing towards this end of times, towards the Kingdom of Antichrist and the end of the world, of course at some point there will be a manifestation of the evil.
 During the time of Antichrist there will be no place for the true Christians, for the Church to exist, so Antichrist, whoever is not going to be loyal to him, is going to be destroyed.
 We are not yet in those days, but clearly after the Russian Revolution in 1917, the world stepped into a new period, this apocalyptic era we can say.
 Because these maniacs, Lenin, Stalin, and others, they've created so much suffering for the world, and they were products of this world, it's not that it's just against capitalism, no.
 It was a big common plan, they were given this mission to create this socialist camp, and they've hit the Church, they've tried to destroy the Church completely, in the whole Soviet Union.
 So, we're now living in the aftermath of what happened in those days. Of course we have new challenges, new problems, and this evil plan of the devil is going on, and as soon as it can seize an opportunity to hit the Church, it will do it.
 So this is what is happening right now. So at some point this would have to happen, and not only in Kyiv Lavra, this is going to be happening everywhere, so don't think that if now it hits not me, someone else, I just watch TV and I'm fine, I just go to my Church, I pray everything is going to be fine.
 It is a great pillar of the Orthodox Church, this monastery, and of course it is making the Antichrist uncomfortable, how it's still there, how come it's still running, and now he's trying to get rid of it.
 Well, first of all, I think most of you know what is Kyiv Caves Lavra. This is one of the greatest monasteries of the Orthodox Church, which was established about a thousand years ago, in the 11th century, and it's been the center of spirituality, of cultural development,
 all the education, all the culture came from this monastery, for the whole, what we call Rus, big Russia, Kyiv Rus, and all these Russian, what is now the Russian Orthodox Church,
 Ukrainian Orthodox Church is a part of it. So many talented writers, and politicians, and of course people, hierarchs of the Church came out of this monastery.
 What is greatly important for us is that the blessed fathers of the Kyiv Caves, they taught the Russian people, Ukrainians, Russians, how to serve the Lord.
 The established monasteries throughout Ukraine, throughout Russia, all coming from this center, so we cannot undervalue the spiritual and the historical importance of this great monastery.
 Now, if it will be closed or given over to a schismatic group, these people who serve Sata, I cannot say anything else, who just call themselves Orthodox, but they are possessed with hatred against the Church and the Gospel of Christ.
 So if the monastery will be given over to such people, or it's just become a museum held by these modern-day Satanists, who now rule most governments, I don't say just Ukraine, almost everywhere now, then it will be a big victory for the devil, we can be sure about this.
 This is going to be a big advance for him.
 Well, the first thing that we think when we hear about any painful, sorrowful news is that we need to repent. We need to acknowledge that it's me. I'm also guilty of what is happening.
 I bear part of the responsibility for what's happened through my sins, through not living Christian life, not being loyal to Christ.
 So this self-criticism is the first thing. The devil is able to advance only when he is allowed to.
 If we are with the Lord, he cannot harm us in no way, unless we become martyrs, of course. This is a very special calling, a very special mission, which might also be the case in the case of the Lavra.
 But in any case, even if we are hit, not because of our sins, we still repent. We still consider that this is for our sins.
 Today I don't want to talk about some shortcomings, some problems that existed in the monastery, or in Ukraine, in the clergy, or in the church authorities, or in the faithful.
 I am not going to talk about this, and there is nothing like you hear about Catholics. There is no dirt like that.
 But of course, we are weak in terms of our eagerness, in terms of the mission that we do, and our times are times of lack of faith, times of secularism.
 And unfortunately, this creeps into everywhere, and we need to repent for that.
 Today I don't want to be specific to discuss these things, because today the monastery is hit, it's under great pressure, it might be destroyed even.
 And all the faithful in Ukraine are in great pain about what's going on.
 So I'm not going to talk about, you know, shortcomings like this. I can say that in Russia we are also guilty of what's happening.
 We are faithful, because of the church authorities. There is also part of the responsibility, especially because of this union with the political agenda.
 Any political agenda is a myth, some kind of narrative which is created to trick people.
 And of course, the Ukrainian government is now using also political reasoning to justify its behavior.
 And this is all manipulation. Politics is all about manipulation.
 Don't trust newspapers and all that kind of stuff. It's all manipulation.
 And the goal, the real goal, is to destroy the church, is to pull people away from the church, to separate them from Christ.
 This is the goal of those people for pushing this agenda with the monastery.
 Just briefly, let's do a brief overview of what happened with the monastery after this revolution, when these Satanists came to power.
 Because this is already more than 100 years of this time.
 First of all, they've killed a metropolitan Vladimir in 1918, right after the revolution. They killed him brutally right in the middle of the monastery.
 And this was the beginning of the Red Terror, which shed blood, rivers of blood, across Ukraine and Russia.
 These people, they came to power and they've begun this big bloodshed.
 In 1926, it was converted into a museum. And by 1930, all the monks, everybody was cleared from any sign of monastic life.
 Because they were either killed, they were just shot, or they were put in prison or concentration camp, almost all of them got destroyed physically.
 Now we don't have such things, it's not going to happen, I hope. So that was terrible, a very bloody way of fixing that thing.
 Then we have a brief period when there was a recovery from 1943 till 1961. And then Khrushchev closed it again.
 He closed it in 1961 and it was reopened after the Perestroika, the time of Perestroika, in 1988.
 So it's now 35 years that the Holy Church regained possession of the monastery, monastic buildings, caves, with the relics of saints.
 And this was the time given to us to revive the spiritual life, to do mission, to do education.
 And there was a lot done during these years. It was almost ruins. When we received it back, it was in a bad situation.
 But now it's nice, bright churches. At that time, all churches were destroyed. I think only one was able to hold services, and it was also in a bad state.
 Now it's many, many churches in the monastery, all restored nicely with holy icons. And it was all done by the faithful, not by the government, by the church.
 But now the government is just, okay, now it's ours, we just do a museum, just everybody go away.
 And we'll see what happens. They said this has to happen on March 29.
 We will hold a kathistos tomorrow to the blessed fathers of the Kyiv caves.
 On the night of the 28th game, we will hold a prayer service for the Lord's mercy.
 Because it's the Lord himself who will make the final decision of what will happen with the lover, with the monastery.
 It's not the government of Ukraine, it's not anyone else, oligarchs, no. It will be done by the Lord.
 If he allows these evil forces to win, to overcome, briefly, of course they will lose. Without God, you always lose.
 But briefly, to get this victory, this will be a great hit on the church.
 It will be a sacrilegious act on the holy relics of the saints. And, of course, it will be the beginning of the last times.
 The last times of the Antichrist will be really happening, going on.
 And it will be very serious if they can succeed.
 So, let us pray, let us repent, let us not accuse anyone. Pray for your enemies.
 We need to pray for people who are persecuted. And blessed are we when we are persecuted.
 This is a great blessing. This means that we carry the cross, that we are loyal to Christ.
 He said, "Whoever has persecuted me, they will also persecute you." And this is what is happening right now.
 Let us pray to our Lord, let us be faithful, loyal to him through righteous life, selfless, self-sacrificing,
 eager to pray, eager to go through the great land to fast, strictly, to emphasize spiritual life,
 and to win over evil, both in our hearts and in this world, in these terrible and dark times that we live in.
 May the Lord give you his blessing and his peace. Amen. God bless.
