 Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church is celebrating the entrance of the Lord to Jerusalem.
 And this begins the Passion Week, the last week before the Holy Pascha.
 And in the early Church, this Passion Week was actually THE Pascha.
 It was more important because Passover is the event of conquering, of going free, overcoming death, sin.
 So it is how the Lord brings salvation, what is important.
 And the salvation by itself, the resurrection, it is the joyful fruit of this.
 But if we don't get this path to salvation, there is no point in celebrating the victory, because we don't gain the victory.
 On this day, there are many mysterious things.
 Many prophets prophesied about what will happen, and that this is exactly how Messiah will come into His glory.
 And all the Jerusalemites, they know that today these prophecies will be fulfilled.
 But they don't really understand the meaning of Messiah.
 Let us look at the Gospel of Luke chapter 19.
 We begin from verse 35.
 "And they brought Him to Him as the donkey, to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.
 And as He went, they spread their clothes in the way.
 And when He was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they have had seen,
 saying, 'Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest.'
 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto Him, 'Master, rebuke their disciples.'
 And He answered and said unto them, 'I tell you that if those should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.'"
 We can try to imagine such a great celebration, exaltation, praise.
 This was the dream, the hope of Israel for thousands of years that Messiah will come, that Messiah will bring salvation.
 They were putting these garments because after He passed through, they can show these garments for many generations to their grandchildren to say, "Look, this is the garment upon which went Messiah on the donkey."
 However, if we read further the Gospel of Luke, we will see some dramatic change or some mystery is hidden here.
 So we keep reading verse 41, "And when He was come near, He befell the city and wept over it, saying, 'If thou has known even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes.'"
 And He explains what is hid. "For the days shall come upon thee, and that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee around, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee.
 And they shall not live in thee, one stone upon another, because thou knowest not the time of thy visitation."
 Isn't this strange? How come everyone is crying in joy, but the Lord Himself, He says, He is weeping. He is weeping when He sees the Jerusalem.
 Well, this brings us to the prophecy that the Lord said about the Jerusalem and about the whole world.
 After this visitation, in about 40 years the Jerusalem will be destroyed, utterly destroyed, the whole Judea will be destroyed.
 Of the Jewish people, one third will be slayed, another third will be put to slavery to different countries, and another third will be spread all across the face of the earth.
 So, this great tribulation will happen to those who did not see the time, the day of their visitation.
 So, they don't really understand what the Lord is bringing to them, all these big crowds which are chanting and praising the Lord on this day.
 Those babies which the women were holding on that day, which were also chanting, after 40 years there will be around 40, right?
 So, they will be the men which will be slayed during that final catastrophe, that apocalypse of the Jerusalem.
 And on that day when more than 1 million people were in Jerusalem at the time of destruction, we can see the rivers of blood.
 So, when the women they weep, they see him going to Gogotha a few days after this entrance, they will be weeping and he will tell them, "Don't weep for myself, weep for your children."
 Because we can understand that the Lord when he approaches the Jerusalem, he is a prophet.
 So, before his eyes opens the future, he can see all those tribulation that will come down upon Jerusalem.
 And he also sees that it is his coming that is causing this to happen, it is directly related to his coming.
 We sometimes we think that always God comes and his blessing blooming and things like this.
 We see here, no, he is coming, he is entering to Jerusalem, but this brings these final days.
 Why 40 years? Why it is not needed? Because the Lord gives mercy and he is long-suffering, he gives time for the people to repent.
 And we see that Saint Peter after Pentecost, he does sermons, public sermons and thousands of people, they repent what they have done and they come and they become disciples.
 And many others, they converted during these 40 years. However, it was still a minority.
 Most people, they chose to stick to this perverted idea of political messiah and stuff like that.
 On this day, what people are expecting is that God will bring political sovereignty, he will bring economic prosperity,
 he will bring victory over Romans and over all enemies, and he will bring this earthly glory to Israel.
 However, God is not so shallow. For him, different empires, states, political agenda, geopolitical success, all of this is like garbage.
 He is concerned about something much more important. He is concerned about salvation and liberation of humans from sin and death and his kingdom does not belong to here.
 He is the king and he does want to bring us to his kingdom. However, we don't understand very often.
 Even us, it's happening so often that people, they get upset about God, they get upset about Christ.
 They say, one girl I know very well, she went to church for many years and she was very pious and very strong believer.
 She knew everything, of course, about faith, she knew so much. And then after many years, maybe 20 years have passed, I see that she is away from the church.
 And how she explained is that, she said, I was doing everything I was supposed to do.
 Okay, I was keeping commandments, I was going to church, I was doing this, this. But at the time when I was facing great challenge, great pain, the Lord didn't help.
 And she got upset and there was some kind of disenchantment. But not to get disenchanted, we should not be enchanted in the first place.
 So there is always this wrong expectation, wrong understanding, that my God, he will come and save me from these difficult circumstances.
 In the same way as the Jews on that day. So it's like Antichrist, it's actually the Antichrist that people are willing to have.
 And the Lord said in the Psalms, Psalm 8, that thou will crush the enemy and the avenger.
 This enemy and avenger is the devil himself. And these Jews who chose not to receive the salvation as it came, they became these enemies and avengers.
 They had this earthly logic that if such humble person comes and you hit him on the right cheek, he will turn the left and he will pray for the enemies and bless them.
 Then they will lose the country, they will lose the nation. They already lost, but they were still afraid of something, some political disadvantage.
 And they had of course another big plan which they didn't want to draw.
 Very often we call ourselves Christians, so many people call themselves Christians, few hundred millions, even orthodox Christians.
 Among them 90% don't know anything about the faith. Another 10%, they come to church but have these wrong expectations, most of us.
 So few people understand this mystery, even not understand, but at least are on the path of this understanding.
 It is easy to test if you are a true Christian or not. Many people say I have God in my heart.
 Well, we have a simple test. Hit him on the right cheek, will he turn the left?
 Now we see somebody ride a bike too fast, we get angry.
 Imagine what would happen if the guy comes down and hits you or spits upon him.
 It's gonna be a scandal. So we are so far away from true Christians.
 Let us think deeply about what has happened.
 Another important clue that we can draw from today's gospel, from today's celebration of the entrance,
 is that the whole world, this end of the world, is actually prophesized by the end of Jerusalem, by the destruction of Jerusalem.
 So when we see persecutions coming or big wars in which so many Christians died,
 we know that there will be some tribulation coming. This happened so clearly at the time of the First World War,
 when the Orthodox countries of Eastern Europe, Russia, they were tormented by this war,
 and then the epidemics, and very soon political turmoil, and the devastation came very quickly.
 The civil war, the Red Terror, destroying blowing up all the churches, destroying monasteries,
 desecrating holy places, holy relics, was a great destructive outcome.
 Both in terms of physical death, it was also a reverse of blood, much more than Jerusalem.
 And something similar will happen at the end of the world now.
 So now when we hear about different wars, and different pandemics, and different other crises that are coming,
 we know that it's all approaching, that the final days are approaching.
 And the Lord himself, when he looks at us, he will weep, because he also will see what will be the final outcome of this world,
 which also does not want to precede him, wants to receive someone instead of him.
 And all these different heresies, these different denominations, they want to substitute real Christ
 with some fake idea of Christ, that will be tolerant to all the sins and passions of the people.
 So that it is according to my idea I will build a church, I will create a new church.
 Not as a church is by itself and I will be transformed, I will be taught, nurtured by the church.
 No, I think no, this is my vision, this is my understanding of the Bible,
 it's different from everyone else, I will establish my own church.
 This is the selfish concept that we have right now, and this is why the people,
 they have the substitution of something else, substitution of that faith into that fake Messiah,
 that will bring some kind of victory and prosperity. It is anti-Christian in nature.
 And even the Orthodox, unfortunately many of them will be embraced, are already embraced by this
 pursuit of joy and happiness in this world, and disregard the kingdom of true Messiah,
 Jesus Christ. Let us think deeply about these things, let us know that when these things are
 approaching, it is not time to be afraid, it is time to be vigilant, to prepare for whatever
 might come. What will be decisive is whether we will be loyal, faithful to Christ despite
 the whole world falling into an abyss. So let us repent, let us adjust our hearts so that we can
 go together with Christ into this Passion Week, that we can live with Him these last days,
 not getting upset, disappointed, willing to take up our cross and follow Him to Golgotha.
 Our personal Golgotha, whichever, whatever it may be that the Lord will be preparing for us,
 let us embrace it joyfully and let us have full trust that there is great purpose in whatever we
 experience every day, that we are on this path with Him. And let us put all effort into spiritual
 work during these holy days of the Passion Week. Like the Lord has settled on this donkey which
 symbolizes conquering the flesh, conquering this material world and all the sins and passions
 associated with this. We need to conquer our passions and spiritually every time we go through
 this cycle, we come from being a donkey to becoming children of God. This is a great
 transformation growth that takes place and it has to happen every year. When we experience this
 cycle from the Great Land to the Pascha to the Holy Pentecost receiving the Holy Spirit,
 we need to come, we need to grow, we need to come closer to the Lord, being liberated from the
 different passions, different wrong ideas, sins and so on. May the Lord help us this year to be
 serious, to be eager in serving Him and to pass on to the victory with the Lord. Amen. May the Lord
 be with every one of you. Merry Passion Week. Amen.
