 Dear brothers and sisters, we are now approaching the resurrection of Christ.
 We are in the Pascha of passions.
 The true source of our salvation comes from the passions of Christ, his death.
 He brings this victory through self-sacrifice.
 Very often we focus on the resurrection.
 But the most important is how do we attain, obtain this resurrection.
 It is through the suffering of the Lord.
 One of the great saints, Saint Anastasia Hendrikova, she said that the more sorrows, the more hardships
 we receive, the greater is the reward and the consolation that we will receive from our
 Lord, that he is preparing for us.
 So it is so important that now during these days of Holy Pascha we are with our Lord despite
 that everybody else, almost all the disciples, they ran away.
 Only very few remained, his mother, his beloved disciple John, Mary the Magdalene and a few
 other mirror bearing women, they stayed with him till the end by his cross.
 They buried him and they witnessed his death.
 In the Acts chapter 1 verse 8 we read, "But you shall receive power, the Lord, the words
 of the Lord to his disciples.
 But you shall receive power after that the Holy Spirit is come upon you, and you shall
 be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost
 parts of the earth."
 What does it mean to be his witness?
 It's to be the witness of his death and resurrection.
 And we will receive great power from the Lord to witness his death and resurrection.
 Since I've been in Jerusalem and I've been there a few times, but one time it was especially
 moving when the gates of the Church of the Sepulchre were closing and many people who
 could not enter into the Church of the Sepulchre for the night, they were staying, they were
 staying by those gates and they were expecting the power from the Lord.
 They were expecting the miracle to become partakers of the miracle of resurrection.
 Their faith was so alive, some were able to stay inside the Church for the whole night,
 to pray all night.
 And that was not just on the day of Pascha and it was not just a Sunday, it was just
 a regular day.
 But in the early morning there was the Divine Liturgy when this miracle also opens and brings
 to us the great power of resurrection.
 And the people were waiting for this miracle to happen.
 They were not just walking around.
 So many people who also do business in Jerusalem, they come for tourism, they just walk around,
 they just buy stuff, they don't care.
 And even in that group of people who were there all night, even there, many of them,
 they had false ideas about the Lord expecting some healings, some career development, some
 problem solving in terms of family issues or something else.
 But some of them, quite many, they were there to enter into the Kingdom of God, to receive
 the power from on high, and to become witnesses of this power of the Lord's death and resurrection.
 In the Psalter we read that the Lord will crush the copper gates and He will break the
 pillars, the iron pillars.
 What are these iron pillars or copper gates?
 It's the gates of Hades that enslave us, enslave all the people in our passions, in our paralysis,
 in our blindness, in our stiffness of our hearts, selfishness, all our fears, all our
 materialistic thinking that the devil has enslaved us with, that we think not about
 heavens, not about the truth of the Lord, not about the commandments of salvation, of
 blessed life, but we think about accounts, mortgages, payments, credits, purchases, nice
 recipes, food, and everything else except the Lord and His Kingdom and His truth.
 And witnessing Him, what are we going to witness if we don't experience this and we don't care
 about this?
 We will be away, we will be outside.
 We should not deceive ourselves.
 We don't love the Lord.
 We are not seeking Him.
 We don't put enough effort into spiritual life.
 Our faith is shallow, it's faint, it disappears like smoke, even small temptation, small issue.
 And we are down, we are off.
 How are we going to go out, be liberated from these gates of Hades which even took the prophets
 and the righteous men of the Old Testament, they were enslaved by these gates?
 How many people who call themselves Christians, even Orthodox Christians, are now enslaved
 by these gates of propaganda, of all kinds of fake narratives?
 And this happens because people don't put the miracle of resurrection in the center
 of their hearts, and this is why you cannot break the gates of Hades because you don't
 have the resurrection in you, working in you, bringing fruits.
 And our vessels are broken, that they cannot hold the Holy Spirit.
 We hold all kinds of garbage that is poured into our heads, our hearts, through mass media,
 through advertisements, through social networks, through our friends and relatives, and everything
 around us.
 And this is why we cannot live for Christ, to be His witness till the end of the world.
 You need to be ready to die for Him, to sacrifice everything, give away everything you have
 for His sake.
 Are you ready for that?
 To sacrifice your relatives, your family, your homeland, your way of life, your comfort,
 everything.
 This is the calling.
 And it is impossible for man, it's possible only for God, who can make this possible for
 us if we will be willing to do that.
 We see how this prince of this world is trying to enslave, he's trying different ways, he's
 trying this, he's trying that, different ideologies, now he's trying to use digital ways of enslaving
 people like Herod in those days.
 He was doing this census and now they want to count everything, your everything, biometrics,
 what you do, what you think, what you buy, everything be transparent.
 The spirit of Antichrist is trying that, but it cannot do it if we have the Lord's resurrection
 working in our hearts and bringing fruit and we become His witnesses till the end of the
 world.
 Or even next door, let's begin from next door, let's begin from ourselves, are we ourselves,
 do we believe in resurrection?
 In those days not many people believed that he really resurrected and even until now most
 of the Jews, they don't believe, they say it's a fake, it's a lie.
 And when you ask Christians, we say resurrection, Pascha, X, this, that, resurrection, okay
 resurrection, it becomes like a fairy tale, we don't really believe in it, we don't really
 even think about it, we don't open the gospel to see what actually happened, what witnesses,
 with what?
 With the cake we're gonna witness something, all those traditions, they're good, they're
 nice, but they're not the purpose why the Lord has suffered and resurrected.
 So let us penetrate into this mystery of resurrection, let us ask the Lord's grace and wisdom to
 come down upon us, enlighten us, make our hearts meek, not stubborn and selfish, but
 meek and willing to follow his will, maybe we truly become his witnesses and not lose
 this opportunity that the Lord is giving to us, is offering to us in this life, this short
 life, may the Lord's grace and blessing and peace be with everyone of you, God bless.
