 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen, indeed he is risen.
 During these Pascal times, we greet each other with these words, we don't say hello, goodbye,
 we say Christ is risen, and we answer, indeed he is risen.
 And this will be until the ascension of the Lord, 40 days from Pascal.
 In this time, when the heavens are open, when resurrected Christ came to his disciples,
 very often, many times, they were not sure where do they live, do they live on earth,
 and this is just earthly reality, or they live in heavens, because the Lord already
 is resurrected, he conquered death, and he is coming to them.
 So, this was a time of this great victory over these gates, which are dividing the profane
 fallen world, physical world, with the world in heavens.
 Because the Lord created both, and he is able to bring both together.
 That's why the resurrected Christ, he was both physical man, he ate with the apostles,
 and he is God, he is true God at the same time.
 We enter into this reality, and we need to understand deeper that the meaning of Pascal
 is not that at different times of the year we have different traditions, we have different
 feasts, and we celebrate it in different ways, and we chant different songs, have different
 decorations, have different foods, and that's it.
 No, this is all just a small reminder.
 Reminder about the reality which is behind this.
 But what is this reality?
 The reality is that we leave this world, this profane world which doesn't have God in it,
 well, seems not to have, lives as though there is no God, and we enter into the divine reality.
 And Christ came to break this gates, to open up this portal, and to understand this better,
 we can think about different worlds.
 For example, we can live in one world when we are children.
 We have the limitations of our world, what we are able to do, goals, like many things,
 values, what is important for me.
 When we are children, it's another world.
 Sometimes we are missing that world when we get older.
 Then there is another world for students, like university.
 And of course, different students have different worlds.
 Some are focused on studies, others party every day.
 So, it could be also very different.
 Different faculties could be a different world.
 And also, for people, when we get older, when we are adults, we have a different world.
 Every person has a somewhat different world from another one, based on profession, let's
 say, world of economists is one world, where it's international trade, GDP, and all those
 things are happening.
 That's what he is concerned about.
 For a housewife, it's another world.
 Even a businessman would look at trade differently than an economist.
 Looking for opportunities, connections, business cards.
 He is different, a profit.
 So it could be very different for different people and in different generations.
 Let's say a generation of our parents or grandparents, they had another world.
 They lived in another world, and they are still living in another world, even being
 next to us.
 And there is a generation gap.
 So they look at things with different eyes, they have different values, have different
 understanding of why things happen.
 So, these are some examples.
 And of course, what we read, what we absorb will influence our world.
 So this is why there are different narratives.
 There is the world opinion about things, who is a good guy, who is a bad guy.
 And we read, we embrace that, we think it's our ideas, but the YouTube or whatever, Facebook
 will give us whatever we like, and we will focus on that.
 And we will disregard other stuff to prove that our worldview is true.
 So slowly, it is the conscience of a flea.
 Everybody flies there, I fly there.
 Another group of people flies another way.
 And there are sort of pastors which have different ways of leading their flock in some way.
 And not to become part of this, not to become influenced by this, we as Christians, we need
 to get out of this world, not physically, but spiritually.
 And this is possible only through Pascha, through the resurrection of Christ.
 Not through education, not through, I don't know, some other things, through Pascha, it
 has to happen on a spiritual level.
 And for a Christian to look at this world and not to have the power of resurrection
 working in you, you will either slowly drift away from faith because you're just swayed
 by this world and spirit of this world, this prince of this world who is using all those
 things which are prevalent in this world.
 What the Lord told us about the deceit of the riches of prosperity and many other things,
 we will be deceived and deluded and led somewhere else by the spirit of this world.
 If we don't have the power of resurrection working in us, if faith for us is only what
 I believe, some kind of dogma, some traditions, and that's it, we won't stay in the Lord.
 We remember Apostle Paul, he said, those people, the righteous people, the saints of the Old
 Testament, they've conquered armies of enemies through faith, by faith.
 And they've done so many wondrous, miraculous things by faith.
 That means that faith is not what I believe, faith is what I do, what I accomplish with
 the Lord, through the Lord, not myself of course, through the power, through the grace
 of the Lord, what I accomplish, what I do.
 That is my faith, that is the fruits of the faith, show your faith.
 If there is no fruits, if your life doesn't change, if your world in which you live doesn't
 change by the power of the resurrection of Christ, then it's not faith, it's just a shell,
 it's lifeless, it's nothing, it will vanish like ash, it will fly away.
 So we have the opportunity to get out of this reality.
 The Lord said, you are in this world, but you don't belong to this world.
 And he wants us to be first and foremost citizens of the kingdom of heaven, that the divine
 realities of the kingdom of heaven are the realities for us.
 Our values will change, our inner world will change, the way we look at things will change
 more and more.
 For some people it's faster, for some people it's more gradual, but the direction has to
 be there.
 When we are talking about spiritual people, what do we mean?
 Spiritual people are not those who learn theology and they know many things, they read many
 books and they know verses of Bible by heart and they can quote and they can write theological
 articles and stuff like that, no.
 Spiritual people are those who live by the Spirit and not by flesh.
 The Lord said that whatever is flesh will bring fruits of flesh which is corruption
 and death, and whatever is spirit will bring the fruits of spirit which is life, and for
 us the life of the kingdom of heaven is not something that will happen after we die, but
 it's something that happens now.
 The day of the Lord is now, it's today.
 The salvation comes now, today, here.
 And we lose interest in many things, many things which used to be attractive to us are
 no longer attractive.
 The Apostle Paul, he said that the world is crucified for me and I am crucified for this
 world, meaning that whatever is in this world is not attractive anymore.
 The Lord himself said don't love this world and whatever is in this world.
 So that's why the prince of this world has no power over Christians.
 It can harm Christians, yes, that can happen, because sometimes the Lord allows devil to
 do calamities over the sinners and even over the righteous sometimes, but say if the whole
 society, we had the Orthodox countries, if the people of these countries became big sinners
 like Sodom and Hamorra or worse, then the punishment will follow, hoping that some of
 them will repent.
 And we know that the Lord can, he has patience, he can wait for a long time, long suffering,
 loving kindness of the Lord.
 But when he hits, he hits hard.
 And when he does hit sinners, righteous, everybody is going to be hit, so don't be surprised
 when things like that happen with us, even if we live, we try to live righteous life.
 So Pascha brings us to another reality.
 We are no longer those materialists, those pragmatic donkeys, the symbology of the Bible,
 the donkey.
 The Lord sits on the donkey, meaning that he overcomes this power of this material world
 to control people.
 He overcomes this matter and he gives us spirit.
 And we become children of the kingdom of heaven from being donkeys and materialists and grounded
 to this world and to the bills that we have to pay and to the news that we listen and
 to all those things.
 Whatever happens in this world, do we do observe what happens?
 It is falling deeper and deeper, but this doesn't make us afraid or despondent.
 We do weep for our sins and for this world, blessed are those who mourn.
 We do mourn for that.
 However, we don't give up and we don't get into despair.
 Because we know that things of heaven, our belongingness, our attachment to the heavens,
 that doesn't change unless we sin.
 That is not taken away from us if we are loyal to Christ.
 And that is possible only through Pascha, only through the resurrection of the Lord,
 through the power that he gives to those who love him and want to follow him.
 And we begin with the power of Pascha, we begin to break this wall that's separating
 us from this divine reality.
 It's cracking.
 It's cracking.
 Okay, not us, of course, it's with the blessing of the Lord, with the power of the Lord.
 When we put effort into spiritual life, it's cracking.
 This life giving us life, this source of life, this spring of life is coming to us.
 The light from the Lord is coming to us and we are thirsty, we are hungry for that.
 This is what we are drawing from the Lord.
 He's giving us this power.
 And everything is changing.
 Our view of this world, what matters, what doesn't matter, it's all changing.
 It's all changing.
 Take up your cross and follow me.
 The one who takes up the cross of Christ is like the prisoner who takes up his cross and
 follows the executioner to Golgotha, to be crucified.
 He doesn't look around.
 He doesn't really care.
 He doesn't really care that much about his resume, his pension plans, and how he looks.
 Is he nice?
 Is he beautiful?
 Does he have influence, friends who can help?
 No, all those things, they become secondary, they don't become important.
 What is important is where does he go?
 He goes on Golgotha, he has to keep going there, not to walk astray.
 So we need to stand on this path.
 And we also can recall when Christianity, Orthodox Christianity, became prevalent in
 society in the times of great Saint Constantine and Helen, Emperor Constantine, it brought
 great opportunities for the mission and great advances of the church, of course.
 But also it brought the general level of spirituality came down because everybody became an Orthodox
 Christian.
 And when it's everybody, everybody is not an eager Christian.
 Just many people become formally Christian and so on.
 So those Christians who were most eager, most serious about their faith, they felt that
 living within the cities, they are losing this attachment to the kingdom of heaven.
 They are polluted with the spirit of this daily life, this routine, this earthly worldly
 interests, even though in those days, life in the cities was much simpler than today.
 Much more moral, maybe, in a way.
 So they left, they withdrew into desert and they lived in the deserts, preserving this
 eagerness and this flame over faith.
 And of course, not everybody can do that.
 We cannot just all go to desert, but we need to understand the intuition behind it.
 This has to remind us that living here, living within the city, anywhere you live, we have
 to stay loyal to Christ.
 We have to be on guard of not being polluted by the spirit of this world, especially when
 we get into these digital worlds, and now the tendency that is going on is to bring
 everybody into other worlds, even away from the regular world into some mystical and phantom,
 fake worlds of digital reality, and is already succeeding with Facebook, with TikTok, with
 games, with many things, that the people are living in those worlds already.
 They are withdrawn.
 When you look at it, he is not here.
 He is there.
 He is in his cell phone.
 And it will be worse and worse.
 However, I should say that when this is changing, the former world is breaking apart and they
 are creating a new world.
 Even when it's moving to a more anti-Christian world, when it's breaking, it gives an opportunity
 for the mission, for the Christian mission.
 However, this is another topic, I won't go into it right now.
 Anyhow, we have to have another process, not this infernal process, going to the hell,
 to this life without God, because it's a life which has demonic principles.
 And we get into it.
 We lose anything, we lose even conscience in this digital world, in this virtual reality.
 We need to get attached to the world of our Lord, to the kingdom of God, so that we are
 grounded in this kingdom.
 We are children of light, and we are children of resurrection.
 Because flesh brings fruits of the flesh, which is death, and spirit brings fruits of
 the spirit, which is life, now, already, not when we die, now, has to become our reality.
 And this will also help us see who is the true enemy of Christ and the world.
 It's not written in newspapers, it will be open to us, to our spiritual eyes.
 Of course, we also read the Holy Fathers who had their spiritual eyes opened, but, as I
 said, unless we are spiritual ourselves, we won't get, we won't understand what is spiritual.
 This is the world of communication with God.
 This is the world of truth, truth of the Lord.
 Not truth as just earthly stuff, science, objective, you can measure it.
 That's not truth.
 Truth is truth of the Lord, that's what matters.
 And it's beyond logic, it's beyond regular words, so I won't say more today.
 May our Lord give us the joy of Pascha, open to us this portal to his kingdom, and help
 us be preserved in that kingdom, staying in this world by belonging to the kingdom of
 God.
 May this be so, amen.
 Christ is risen, indeed he is risen.
