 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 We will celebrate Pascha until the Ascension, for forty days.
 Forty days the Lord, the resurrected Christ, he was coming to his disciples,
 and they could not tell if they are in the heavens already, or still on this earth.
 So, it is a time of special joy when the heavens are open,
 and when we partake of this resurrection.
 The life is brought to us abundantly.
 I hope that you can also feel, at least somewhat feel,
 that the time that we go through now is very special,
 is very different from any other time.
 And I also want to share with you what does it practically mean.
 One of the aspects of the life that the Lord is giving to us,
 in this daily life, that involves even this society, economics, politics, and other things,
 because the Lord comes and he is getting involved in this world, resurrected Christ.
 And he said, "In the way that my Father, in the same way as my Father has sent me, I am sending you."
 So, we see that he himself came and he had a mission of the Father in this physical world.
 In the same way we continue his mission.
 But practically, what does it mean?
 We can talk about it from different aspects.
 But today I want to say about the crushing of Leviaphan.
 Leviaphan is this prince of this world.
 The Lord himself, he fell victim.
 He was killed by the prince of this world.
 Because Judas betrayed him because of money and greed,
 and other Pharisees and the chief prince.
 They also have this greed, this hatred against him and other Jews.
 Because, not all the Jews, but many.
 Because they wanted the prince of this world.
 They wanted Antichrist and they became children of the devil.
 And they succeeded.
 They wanted to destroy him, the human being.
 He wanted to destroy the man, Jesus.
 And they've done it.
 However, through his death, the Lord overthrew death.
 He rose and he brought salvation to all of us.
 So, does this say that Judas is a good guy and he is supposed to be there?
 No.
 We don't prove any evil.
 In the Lord, in him, there is no evil.
 There is no darkness.
 He hates everything sinful and filthy.
 Because this Asian-Daoist idea that good and bad are just too simple.
 Dualisms existed in ancient Greece and everywhere.
 In many nations until now, there is this dualistic thinking.
 That good and bad are just two sides of some reality and both need to exist.
 And actually, Talmudism, modern-day Judaism also holds that.
 That there is no evil, evil.
 Evil is also something good.
 It can bring up something good.
 Which is a great mistake.
 And that mistake brings people to serving the devil.
 Because they use evil thinking that it is good.
 Well, the Lord himself, he can use the outcome of the evil for a good purpose.
 Not that he proves evil, but he is so wise and so benevolent that he is able to accomplish that.
 And today, I want to say a few words. In this world, which is getting worse and worse.
 Evil is increasing, lies are increasing, many things are increasing.
 From the 1970s, even the mass media is no longer expected to bring truth.
 There was this paradigm shift.
 And of course, this is as old as humans, but it gets worse and worse.
 And we see more and more fake stuff that is brought to us as truth.
 We still can get benefit from this.
 So today, what I want to say is the way we can look into why the Lord allows the evil to happen.
 And what good benefits can be extracted from this evil.
 But only that benefit can benefit those who love Jesus Christ.
 This is very important for those who don't love him, who didn't become followers, true followers of Christ.
 They will be harmed badly by this evil and they will go to death and condemnation.
 Why is this so?
 Well, we see, first of all, let's look at the Lord himself, then we'll come back to modern day situation.
 The Lord himself, he was killed and this evil accomplishment brought his resurrection.
 The fruits of resurrection came to those who believed in him, they gained salvation.
 For the other people, like Judas, who committed suicide and hanged himself, there was some kind of remorse, but there was no repentance.
 And it's a miserable death.
 Then we have all those Jews who were destroyed in the time of the Jewish war.
 And the Lord told them that because you have not recognized me, you will be surrounded by enemies and you will be crushed and destroyed with much pain and suffering.
 So the same goes for today.
 So let's see. We can see that now, even the Christians, even many of the Orthodox Christians are victims of some sort of propaganda.
 So we can see that most of us, we live alone in the spiritual reality.
 If even physical reality, we cannot distinguish, we cannot understand and fall victim.
 We live alone in the spiritual reality. What physical reality? The information.
 Now it's the information age. We are cheated all the time by mass media, by the speakers that we like to hear, that always say things that we like.
 We think that we are free in making our decisions and opinions, informing our opinions, but we're not.
 We just suck into the information that we like.
 And we don't understand the psychology of the society, why there are wars going on, how was the truth behind those wars, behind some other projects of the New World Order.
 We don't understand even these simple things, which are mainly physical, not even spiritual.
 Lack of education, lack of eagerness, not willing to think with our own head, and fear that if we disagree with some mainstream idea, we will be marginalized.
 Not many of us know this theory of dialectics, materialistic dialectics, these so-called spiritual dialectics, all kinds of dialectics.
 We don't know, we don't understand what's going on.
 We just read newspapers what lies on the surface and it's actually fake, there is some picture that's created. Even that we don't understand.
 And we're afraid to be called conspirologists and stuff like that.
 But I tell you that if you believe in chance, it just happens by chance.
 There is this happening, that happening, you just read it in the news, it just happens by itself.
 Whoever believes that everything is straightforward and just happens by chance and lies on the surface, it's naive and stupid.
 And to be able to avoid that.
 The solution is not just to go and learn, to listen to someone who explains, because that's not enough.
 Apostle Paul tells us that the Christmation that you receive will teach you everything.
 And he also tells us that you have to renew your mind.
 You have to always have that renewal coming from the source of life, which is the resurrection of Christ.
 So the Lord himself, he says that let the dead man go bury their dead man.
 Meaning that whoever doesn't have a life from Christ, he's already dead.
 If you don't like the word dead, asleep.
 We are almost asleep or dead as Christians who believe Christ, but we don't live according to his commandments.
 And we don't perceive his life.
 And that's why we fell victim, including the clergy, including bishops, many of whom become like this.
 And we'll see that in future it will be worse.
 In the churches, in many churches you won't hear truth.
 And this already happened big time with all these protestant and catholic denominations.
 The spirit of deceit is out there.
 And we can see what happens now.
 When we have the whole world divided in two camps.
 Maybe more, but it's very general. You support the war or you're against one side and you want the other side to wage war.
 You support war in any case, no matter which side you're on.
 And anytime a lot of people, a lot of newspapers are writing about this is true, this is right, we should do this, this, this.
 You have to know that this is manipulation.
 And this manipulation makes both sides die for Antichrist.
 Because the new world order that's going to be created will be closer to the kingdom of Antichrist.
 And we ask why the Lord is allowing this to happen? Because people depart from him, they don't want to live with God.
 They want Antichrist, so he allows this to happen.
 However, this will, this can have a good beneficial outcome for those who love Christ.
 This is a paradox, but this is true.
 What outcome? What benefit?
 Well, you see, let's say there is no war.
 Everybody would have one paradigm that this is how things have to develop.
 This is the right thing.
 OK, these values are the truth.
 The doctrine, there is one global doctrine that is implanted in the minds of people.
 And including the Orthodox, they just go along the flow, just do what you do routinely, serve services, this, this, this.
 Just do it and that's it.
 And many people, including Orthodox, we are used to this kind of mechanic repetition.
 Be it divine service, be it ministry, be it anything, we just do it, we just do it.
 But this creates spiritual sleep and we are not challenged in the way that we have to wake up.
 So right now, let's say you are Orthodox, you would be in one country, you would hear one kind of paradigm.
 You would be in another country, say in Russia, you hear another absolutely different paradigm everywhere, including in the church.
 But you know that some other Orthodox have another paradigm which can challenge you to think why is this happening?
 Why? We are both Orthodox, we both receive Holy Communion, we both pray, we both want to serve the Lord.
 We are honest in our desire to follow Him, but we are exactly opposite and we are supposed to kill each other because we have these opposing positions.
 You think maybe, maybe I need to turn on my only hand and not listen to this propaganda stuff.
 I need to fall out of both paradigms.
 And of course, everyone around you would tell you, oh you are enemy, if you fall out of this paradigm, you are on the other side, you become our enemy.
 So most of us, we are afraid to do that, but is there anything to be afraid of other than falling away from the Lord?
 Sinning, that's what we are afraid of.
 We are not afraid of people, criticism, anything, being marginalized, being called conspirologists, we are not.
 So we have this opportunity, many of the Orthodox have the opportunity to use what's going on now, this Orwellian scenario is now going on.
 We have the opportunity to wake up and to fall away from this manipulation.
 And if we don't fall out of this manipulation, we will have the same destiny as the Israel of those days of apostles.
 When one third of them was killed, were slaved by Romans in Jerusalem and across the whole Judea.
 One third became slaves and another third was scattered across the whole earth to other countries.
 That's what's going to happen to everyone, including Christians, including Orthodox Christians who don't understand what I'm saying now and don't realize that and don't wake up.
 Of course you would wake up because you can find truth with the Lord. He would confirm what I say here.
 You don't have to believe me because I think that you can ask this directly from the Lord if what I say is true.
 May the Lord help us give us wisdom, give us love, give us peace to our hearts, give us the joy of Pascha.
 Give understanding to everyone who is involved directly or indirectly in this conflict, which is getting bigger and bigger, worse and worse.
 And may the plans of the devil go astray, but the plan of the Lord come true and have more and more people join the body of Christ and enter into the salvation of our Lord. Amen.
 Christ is risen. Indeed, He is risen. God bless.
