 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 The Holy Church celebrates Pascha, and we are full of joy of the resurrection of Christ,
 which brings true life to every one of us.
 It gives us hope of our own resurrection, and we already feel it.
 However, for the whole world, this event didn't make much sense.
 We've celebrated Pascha and the world kept going.
 We have wars, we have all the agenda, we have all kinds of problems, all kinds of issues.
 The world is running, it has its own things we can read in the news, what's going on.
 And Pascha, maybe just some new Orthodox celebrated Pascha.
 For the world as a whole, it doesn't have much importance.
 And we'll see that even for the Christians, even for the Orthodox Christians, very often
 Pascha is just a time of special celebration.
 We just have some special decoration in the church, we have this, we have that.
 We're supposed to have it because it's Pascha, it's over, it's gone, big meal, everybody's
 eating, drinking, okay, finished, Pascha finished, okay, what's next?
 Let's prepare for what's next.
 Which also tells us that even us, even the so-called Christians, Orthodox Christians,
 even us, we are far away from this living experience of the Lord and from the resurrection
 that is brought to us by Pascha.
 And there is one concept which can summarize all phenomena.
 Because we are talking in the religious area, okay, there is so many religions, it's so
 complicated, there's pantheism, confucianism, all different kinds of paganism.
 There is Muslim different factions and there are atheists, there are so many, it's so complicated.
 About the world view, okay, you have different, you have modernist, you have postmodernist,
 you have post-post, you have liberalism, you have something else.
 Okay, philosophy, you can be with Heidegger or you may be with Bergson or with Wittgenstein,
 okay, there are different, and a lot of people don't care about this at all, what religion,
 what Wittgenstein, just live life to enjoy your life, okay, just every day, just don't
 even think about these things.
 Most of people are like that.
 So, we can see it seems to be so versatile, different things, but it all boils down to
 one thing and it is called godlessness, godlessness.
 And sometimes people think that it's ethics, no.
 Godlessness is any lifestyle, doctrine, religion, philosophy, anything that doesn't live with
 the Lord, for the Lord, for the true Lord, including different types of heresies, this
 distorted Christianity, which doesn't want to follow the Holy Spirit and the holy tradition
 of the church and wants to find some other way, this is also godlessness.
 So we can see that the whole world slipped into this godlessness, it's just different
 forms, different shapes and forms, but it's all one same thing, it will be a different
 degree, okay, I'm not just saying black or white, no, it can be different degree, it
 can be worse, it can be better, but it's all godlessness.
 We live in the world of total godlessness, which becomes worse and worse, and we sometimes
 just don't want to see it, don't want to acknowledge that this is what it is, because when we live
 as though there is no God, this is godlessness, we live every day just routine, you don't
 have to be a big, big sinner, like ugly sinner, just living every day just to enjoy, just
 have nice dinner, have nice entertainment, just go on, without God, without thinking
 about the Lord, without changing our hearts, without having any ascotism, in terms of breaking
 away from my old self and following the Lord and the gospel, this is godlessness.
 So we can say there is a practical godlessness and there is theoretical, theoretical is maybe
 some scholars, some people who research theology, philosophy, they become Marxist or environmentalist
 or humanist or something else, they choose some form of thinking or religion and they
 are serious about it, they know what they do, and it is against the Lord, it is far
 away from him, it's making idols from something else, and it's against God.
 But most people, they don't even have that, they have what I call practical godlessness.
 But it's not me who is talking about this, there is a professor, he wrote this book,
 he wrote it in the end of 19th century, so professor Biliayev, Alexander Biliayev, professor
 of theology of the Moscow Theological Academy before the revolution, that was in the end
 of the 1800s and beginning of 1900s, and he tells, he analyzes all different kinds from
 ancient times before Christ, ancient Greece, Rome, what kind of godlessness they had at
 that time.
 We can also say, well, it becomes worse, the Lord himself said that, okay, there are most
 people, they choose the broad way, they don't follow the narrow way, and he was talking
 about corrupted and sinful generation, adulterers and sinful generation.
 But it was much better in those days than it is today, okay?
 If we even look back 30 years ago, 40 years ago, we look at the movies and what people
 wrote, what people thought, what kind of relationships were between people in society, it was much
 better than today, okay?
 People they dedicated all their life to their job, now who is doing that?
 People are just looking for better opportunities, running back and forth.
 People in those days were much more loyal to their spouse, to their job, to whatever
 they did, there were much more heroes, okay, look back in the First World War, Second World
 War, people who died for their country, okay, much more, not like now.
 I'm not saying that this was the right thing, but people overall were different, there were
 heroes, there were people who were honest, there were people who were creating music,
 great composers, do we have any today, this is garbage music, which is not music at all.
 When people laughed, they laughed, okay, we can see it, they laughed, they could die
 for that, it was different than now, so we say, we can see how shallow people are.
 In those days, we read even about this relationship, much more profound between people, then now
 it's just SMS, those smiles, okay, sent to you, okay, finish.
 Relationship became shallow, people shallow, the internal world of people is full of garbage
 or it's empty, okay, of anything, so healthy, people can waste their time in those computer
 games or other crazy stuff.
 We can see that many things have changed, even just recent, recent decades, the world
 is going somewhere, like in the wrong direction, even despite all this so-called progress and
 those technological breakthroughs, new iPhones and stuff like that, this is nothing compared
 to what we lose.
 If we become like monkeys, we become like, I don't know, completely deprived of any image
 of God, become worse than animals in how we live, in what instincts we serve, then all
 those technologies is for no use, it's going to make us more harm.
 So this is the reality that we're facing.
 And today I'm saying these things, not to scare anyone, but just to remind all of you
 that we are different from this world.
 We should not associate ourselves with this world, with the way it lives and thinks, with
 the values of this world, with the lifestyle, with the manners, with how we behave, how
 we talk, how we dress, we don't have to also associate ourselves with this fallen and ugly
 and sinful world, which is the world of godlessness, all the movies that you watch.
 It's not about the brave people, it's about people who think that they're gods.
 This is the image, you have to be like God, you will be God without true God.
 That is the impression from the devil.
 And when we serve only ourselves, care only about our comfort, about our health, about
 our well-being, about our beauty, this is making ourselves at idol, this idol worshipping.
 I'm not saying that we don't have to care about these things, but when this is the only
 content of our life, we are enemies of Christ.
 We become betrayers and we become godless, disbelief, infidel folk.
 May the Lord save us from all this delusion, from all these temptations, help us to preserve
 our hearts, our souls, uncorrupted, undefiled by all the evil that is out there in this
 world.
 To heal whatever wounds we have through his resurrection, through the power of his resurrection.
 To enlighten us with his light and to see that the so-called light of progress and civilization,
 so-called civilization is darkness, is harmful and vain, glorious, proudness, which is madness.
 May the Lord help us and give us his blessing, I mean, Christ is risen, indeed his risen.
