 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 In the forty days after his resurrection, the Lord is coming to his disciples, to us,
 and uncovering the secrets of the Kingdom of Heaven.
 What are the secrets of the Kingdom of Heaven?
 Today, let us think deeper about what does it mean to know God, and how are we disturbed,
 how can we know God in this time of this information blast, overflow that we are living in?
 We know that in the early times of the Church there were people who were called Gnostics.
 Basically these were Satanists, the people who did not receive the truth, and they were
 serving another master, which is basically the devil.
 They were critical about the evil God, they are calling our God "evil God", and because
 of them the idea of Gnosis became spoiled and devaluated.
 However, in the early Church, for example, Saint Clement of Alexandria, he is saying
 that a Christian has to become the true Gnostic.
 What does he mean?
 He means that we need to receive the true Gnosis.
 What is this Gnosis?
 The early ascetics in the 1st and 2nd century, when they began their day, every day, when
 it was still even before sunrise, they were praying earnestly, they were asking, what
 were they asking?
 They were asking for a fine day, or a perfect day.
 What does it mean?
 Not a good weather, no, and actually until now we have a day of perfect, holy, sinless
 and peaceful grant us today our Lord.
 This is still in our Liturgy until today, this petition.
 What does it mean "perfect day"?
 It is a day in which the Lord opens up our mind to receive the truth.
 If you receive the truth in this day, this is a fine day for you.
 Let us think about this.
 The internal eyes, the spiritual eyes have to be open, and I have to be, my life should
 be pleasing to the Lord so that He can reveal to me His truth today.
 But we think now, okay well, I just need to know which is right.
 Okay Orthodox is right, okay I believe Orthodox.
 Or Sola Scriptura, only Bible, okay I got the Bible, I read Bible, oh yes, I got it,
 okay I am fine, I keep living in the way I used to live.
 I am immersed in my agenda, information field, I am overflown with information, this is what
 is my life, we are all day in our gadgets looking for what's news, what happened, Facebook
 and other stuff, okay, we are all there.
 And we are missing something most important.
 Today I want to talk about this.
 So let us look what the Lord Himself said.
 In John 10.14 He says "I am the good pastor, I know mine, my people, and mine know me."
 So people of God, they know God, this refers to kenosis, this refers to knowledge of God.
 Further down, in John 10.27 "My sheep listen to my voice" or hear my voice, that's a better
 translation.
 So those sheep, those who follow Christ, they hear His voice and they know His voice from
 the voice of strangers, okay.
 In Matthew we read "The Lord said, 'Nobody knows Son but the Father, and neither anyone
 knows Father but the Son, and the one to whom the Son is willing to reveal.'"
 So God's Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, He is willing to reveal God the Father, He is willing
 to reveal Himself as Messiah and God the Father to some chosen ones.
 And without this revelation we know nothing about God.
 And we see that this knowledge has to be daily knowledge, we have to receive this knowledge
 every day, if we stop, finish, we're out, it's not that "okay, I got it, I'm baptized,
 I'm fine, do something else", no, we have to maintain in this knowledge.
 And in our prayer, actually after the Holy Communion, we say the prayer "Lord, preserve
 us in Thy holiness so that the whole day we may learn of Your righteousness, of Your truth."
 So we need the body of Christ, we receive the Holy Communion and we ask Him to preserve
 us in His holiness today so that the whole day today we can learn His righteousness.
 Sometimes they translate "meditate upon Your righteousness".
 So meditate, it's to receive, to know, to learn, to find out.
 We need to pray about this so earnestly.
 And Saint Basil the Great, he tells us that knowing God is the same or is manifested through
 keeping His commandments.
 So if we love commandments of Christ, what he told us, that means that we love Christ.
 He said that himself, "whoever loves me, he will keep my commandments".
 So the saints, Saint Clement Alexandria and many others, they said "ascetism" is knowledge
 of God.
 It's not that "okay, we learn theology, we read a lot of books and now we know about
 God".
 No, books are fine, but without ascetism, it's nothing, it's no use.
 And also, ascetism without knowing God.
 Some people think "okay, I'm biased, I need to fast, I need to do this, this, this".
 No, I don't need to learn all those things about God and stuff like that.
 No, I just pray a lot and that's enough.
 That's also a big mistake.
 You will know God more, better, if you have ascetic life.
 And what is ascetic life?
 It's mortifying all self and having the new creature live in you, mortifying all these
 passions, which is so difficult to do in this world of information.
 So the Lord himself, he said "seek first and foremost the kingdom of God and its truth
 and everything else and all those things", meaning earthly things, what to eat, what
 to drink, what to wear, where to leave, they will be added unto you.
 Do we seek the Lord and His truth every day, when we are in our gadgets all the time, looking
 at what's happening, what's going on, stuff like that.
 And the Apostle Paul tells us about us, okay, in the Romans 3.11, he says "there is no one
 who is righteous, there is no one who understands, knows, gnosis.
 No one is seeking the Lord, is seeking God.
 Everybody diverted away from the way, from the way of truth.
 All of them, every single one of them, are useless".
 So terrible words.
 We become useless if we don't know God, if we deprive, we divert ourselves from His path
 of truth and righteousness, through sins, through immersion into this information world.
 We divert ourselves from the true path and we are useless.
 And then we ask why people died, so many people, in a war, in a virus, in cancer, they're useless.
 We are useless, God sees no use in our existence.
 That's why we die like mosquitoes, okay.
 So it is so important for us to understand, okay, me and my belongingness, okay, my membership
 in the kingdom of God is the reality for me, okay, this is my castle, this is my everything.
 And the external world is out there, okay.
 I know it's out there and I have some responsibility about it, okay.
 You are in the world but you don't belong to this world, so we are in this world.
 So whenever we need to understand something, what's going on there, we get out and get
 back, okay.
 We're not getting out and just immerse in there because then we will lose, we will lose
 Christ.
 And this is what's going on.
 And this is why ourselves and people around us, if you pay attention, we're always complaining.
 It's so hard, the life is hard, my relatives have that, I don't have a good job, this and
 that, economy is bad, politicians are bad, okay.
 Because we are in this world, we belong to this world and this is why we're not happy
 about this world because that's our world, no, it's not our world, we should not be immersed
 in this reality.
 We have our own reality which determines our internal world, our peace of our heart, everything,
 the joy in Christ, this is our reality, not this world determines.
 It's the materialists, those Marxists and others, they love that, they say reality determines
 consciousness, whatever, okay, what's your profession, how much money you have, which
 country you're from, that decides everything about you, your product of the world, of the
 things which are going on in this world, those things determine you, your education,
 your relatives, your whatever, your career, that determines you, no, for us, no, we have
 to get out of this determination, it's our love towards Christ that determines who we
 are, which gives us this spiritual freedom and joy and power of resurrection working
 in us, this is what decides who I am and not everything else, everything else is conditional,
 okay, I should not be determined, limited by the existence, so the existence which determines
 consciousness or being or whatever, it's the spiritual reality which is in me coming from
 the Lord, from my knowledge of the Lord, that determines who I am, okay, we know what's
 going on in this world, we just, from 2020, you know what's going on, the world is being
 restructured, we are getting hit, one hit after another, now we have some time, okay,
 now we have some time, they think that okay, we get relaxed and the next kid is gonna kill
 us, okay, he's gonna successfully build the new world which they want, so we, us, we should
 not relax, now it's not time for to relax, it's time for us to spiritually get stronger,
 to get ready for whatever is coming and big hits are still coming, okay, if we don't learn
 how to have this fortress, spiritual fortress of our soul, okay, standing in Christ in His
 truth, we will not go through those things which are coming, okay, so let us use this
 time to become stronger soldiers of Christ, not to get into laziness, despondency, worldliness,
 okay, no, now is the time for us to get stronger in the Lord, we draw whatever the Lord can
 reveal to us during this time of Bascom, especially he is revealing so much to us and we ask for
 Him to preserve us in His truth and to make us stronger, to make us holy, to make us stand
 firm in His truth and face whatever challenges we have to face to His glory, may the Lord
 give us this strength, this joy and preserve us in His truth, I mean, Christ is risen,
 indeed He is risen.
