 - Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 Today, I am trying another microphone arrangement.
 Hope you can hear me well.
 Today, I'm in Taichung.
 We had divine service here yesterday
 and meeting of our faithful community.
 And I want to share with you about mission.
 And it's quite related to what we had last time.
 Last time, we've talked about how important it is
 to be detached from all this information
 for this agenda that's overwhelming everyone.
 We need to detach ourselves.
 And today, I want to talk about what does it mean
 for us as a church, as a whole, New Israel,
 to be on this journey from Pascha to Pentecost.
 We're all approaching Pentecost already,
 but still, it's worthwhile talking about this.
 Well, you see, we live in this world,
 the gates, building New Babylon, we have construction.
 And the Lord said that when the Son of Man will come,
 will he find faith on earth?
 Because people will be building houses, getting married,
 buy, sell, stuff.
 And all of a sudden, the judgment will come.
 And it will be a surprise to everyone.
 We don't want to be surprised to us.
 We want to live with the Lord every day of our life.
 And not to build Babylon,
 but to build the temple of our soul.
 And when I came here this time,
 I was surprised by so many pagans,
 so paganism everywhere.
 Even here in this small place where I stay,
 the person who takes care of it, he's a pagan.
 And he has all kinds of stuff here.
 So for example, stuff like this.
 These are sticks for incensing to be idols,
 for idol worshiping.
 And many other things, some things like this,
 and a lot of different stuff related to pagan faith,
 to worshiping of these idols.
 So it's so many people still, we're doing mission,
 but it's so many people around us are,
 they stick to this pagan idolatry.
 This is one thing.
 Another thing is that us ourselves,
 I've received confessions yesterday.
 Before we unite with Christ, we need to cleanse our soul.
 We need to get rid of all the passions,
 all the garbage, all the dirt that's inside.
 And we do confession.
 And there are still so many passions people struggle with,
 so many things.
 It's a difficult, painful struggle
 that everyone is going through, including Christians.
 Okay, so this all relates to what I want
 to talk about today, because if we think about Pascha
 and Pentecost, let us go back to the Old Testament.
 The Old Testament, in the Old Testament, it was Pesach,
 and there was also Pentecost, 50 days after Pesach,
 which were images of the future Pascha and Pentecost,
 of the New Israel, of the Holy Church.
 And the meaning of Pesach, you all know,
 it's liberation from slavery from Egypt,
 passing through the Red Sea and getting rid of this Pharaoh.
 This was not an easy escape.
 We know the 10 tribulations which happened over Egypt
 and so many calamities that happened there.
 And people of Israel, the Jews at the time,
 not yet people of Israel, they were still just Jews.
 And they suffered a lot.
 To be able to get out, that was a big struggle, okay?
 So in the same way, we also have the struggle
 of the Great Land and the Passion Week,
 which precedes Pascha.
 We have the liberation from death and victory over sin
 in Pascha as a result, as an outcome of Christ's own Pesach,
 his own passing through the passions and death.
 He had to experience this in order to overthrow
 these gates of Hades, to destroy,
 to break those gates of Hades.
 So this is Pascha.
 However, we see that these people of Israel,
 once they came out into this desert of the peninsula
 of Arabs, Arab peninsula,
 they now had no certainty about anything.
 They didn't know what will be future.
 Yes, Moses was saying that there is some promised land,
 but where is this promised land?
 And they have no guarantee, no income.
 Okay, they have great, they have freedom, they do.
 Now nobody tells them, but they don't have the security
 that came together in Egypt with the, it's called slavery,
 but it was not too bad.
 Many of them, they said, "Let's go back to Egypt."
 They really wanted to go back because it was safe,
 it was fine, it was good crops, it was income.
 So now when they gained this freedom,
 they gained it for a purpose.
 The purpose was to achieve, to establish the covenant,
 the covenant, the testament of the Lord on Mount Sinai.
 And that happened after 50 days of exile.
 So it was necessary for them to be free people
 so that the Lord can have this agreement with free people,
 not with slaves.
 You cannot make agreement with a slave.
 He, or with somebody who has obligations to someone else,
 you cannot have, because he is already,
 you cannot marry with somebody who is married already.
 These obligations to someone else, to the Pharaoh.
 So once they were liberated, only then it was possible
 to do the covenant, to do the covenant for the purpose
 of having them become the new nation, the nation of God,
 the chosen nation that will bring the message of God
 to all the nations, everyone else.
 They have this great task to accomplish here in this world.
 So in a similar way, now we have the accomplishment.
 All of that was just an image of what is to come,
 because the fullness came when our Lord Jesus Christ
 has liberated us through overthrowing death and sin
 in Pascha, in his resurrection.
 He gives us his resurrection,
 makes us children of resurrection.
 But this is not the final goal in itself.
 Okay, it's not that, okay, Pascha, yes, we have liberation,
 we have this power from the Lord that's liberating us
 from all the sins and passions, hallelujah.
 And that's it, I'm finished.
 No, it is given to us, this liberation is given to us
 so that the Lord can establish the new covenant with us,
 with his disciples, and this covenant will be established
 on the Pentecost with the dissension of the Holy Spirit.
 He's establishing the church, the new Israel
 that will be living in this new covenant.
 And the goal is also now to make these apostles,
 these disciples, every Christian to become his apostle,
 to share the news of the gospel,
 and to bring this message of salvation to everyone,
 every nation, everyone on this planet.
 So, and it would be possible to do only with the union,
 with the Holy Spirit,
 with the coming down of the Holy Spirit.
 So now, we as a church, and we are not individuals,
 you, me, no, the most important is we are a church,
 because when we pray our Father, we say our Father,
 even when we pray at home, just by myself,
 I would say our Father, not my Father, okay?
 Why?
 Because even in the occasion, I am part of the church,
 so the Lord will hear me as though he is listening
 to the church, and not just to individually you, me.
 So now we as a church are on this path
 of renewing our covenant.
 Of course, it's not the first, for most of us,
 it's not our first Pentecost.
 Our individual Pentecost happens with the Chrismation.
 When we do after baptism,
 we do the sacrament of Chrismation,
 coming down in the Holy Spirit.
 But we know that we get weaker, and we depart,
 and we have, we're going back to the Egypt to sin,
 but now the Lord wants us to renew our union with him,
 to renew this covenant, okay?
 And this will happen big time on the Pentecost.
 If we want it, of course, we have to be craving,
 we have to be expecting this to happen.
 Not being immersed in some other agenda,
 what somebody is wearing, what the economy,
 what the bombs, military, what summit,
 something else happening.
 Yes, those things happen, but that's not big core for us.
 Even my family matters, or my career job related questions.
 It's not the question, the most important.
 The most important is that me as a church,
 as a member of the church,
 I'm on the way to the Pentecost on these days,
 and I'm waiting for the Holy Spirit to come down,
 and to guide me, and to preserve me in his holiness,
 and to teach me to what should I do,
 to do the ministry to him.
 So how do we prepare?
 What do we, what practically?
 Practically, we need to keep our hearts clean.
 We need to not to allow this Egypt to come into us again.
 We gain this resurrection,
 we gain this liberation on Pascha.
 We need to stay in that liberation.
 We need to be careful not to lose
 our union with the Lord,
 not to lose all the gifts that he gives, okay?
 Not to lose this spiritual freedom that we gain
 when we throw away all the sin,
 we overthrow all the passions.
 Now we need to stay in that state.
 So we need to be really careful because without this,
 we won't be able to enter into the covenant.
 We won't be able to renew this covenant.
 May the Lord give you such willingness,
 give you this renewal on the Pentecost,
 and to help every one of us not to be distracted
 from this path,
 not to be misled by all this Babylonian construction
 that is going on in this world.
 The old paganism, the new paganism.
 Another thing I also give our Russian students,
 they also ask, what about the yoga?
 What about going to those Buddhist temples
 just for science seeing?
 They are also influenced by all these paganism,
 the new paganism, the neo-paganism and all new age
 and all that crap.
 May the Lord keep us safe from every evil thing,
 keep us in His holiness and give us this blessing.
 Give us the Holy Spirit that we are waiting
 and craving for so much.
 Christ is risen, indeed He is risen.
 God bless.
