 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen, we have arrived to the end of the 40-day period of the resurrected Christ coming to his disciples and teaching them the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven.
 However, it seems that they did not understand everything yet, which we can see from the Bible. Let us see how the ascension happened, and then we will talk about what does it mean for the Church today, how relevant this is for us today.
 Let's look at Acts 1 verse 6-11. When they (disciples) therefore were come together, they asked of him, "Say, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel?"
 And he said unto them, "It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has put in his own power; but you shall receive power after the Holy Spirit is come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth."
 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he ascended, and a cloud received him out of their sight; and while they looked steadfastly toward heaven, as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, who also said, "You men of Galilee, why stand you gazing up into heaven?
 This same Jesus, who a row ascended up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner, as you have seen him go into the heaven."
 First clarification is that the English translation makes a mistake that he was taken up. No. The original Greek and Syrian, the oldest Syrian text, they give us active, like he ascended himself. So this is a mistake. Please watch out.
 In most translations this is a mistake. In some you can find that he ascended, which is correct.
 Let's look at this text here. First of all, they ask him, "Is he restoring the kingdom of Israel?" For them this is the question. They did not ask anything else.
 They think he was talking with them for 40 days, but they still don't understand, and they still know. He told us to come all together. We know that at the time of 500 people, 500 disciples, they came together.
 Everyone who was somewhat related to the Lord, and who cared about what was going on, who had at least some faith in Jesus, they came to that place.
 About 500 people. We can say this is the result of the mission of the Lord and his disciples throughout the whole Judea and Galilee, 500 men, people.
 Even though he fed, you remember, 50,000, but no, they don't come. None of them came. Only these 500 people.
 They asked him, "Is this the final, what we were waiting for? This is everything the prophets promised, and this is what was expected. Is this happening now?"
 And he said, "No, basically, because the times and seasons in the power are all in the power of God the Father, and it's not for you to know, so don't worry about this, but you need to worry about something else.
 You need to worry about the mission that I give you, that from now on until when? Until my second coming. The task for you is to go and be witnesses unto me about my resurrection, about my teaching, about my love, about my sacrifice.
 You will be witnesses here in the whole Jerusalem, in the whole Judea, in Samaria, and even to the edge of the world.
 So now go back to Jerusalem and wait for the Holy Spirit to come down. So this now is what you need to be expecting.
 What is the goal for you to wait is to wait for the Holy Spirit. This is what is promised to you by me and by God the Father, not some kingdom of Israel.
 This is replacing your expectation of the kingdom of Israel. It is your expectation of the Holy Spirit to come down and the expectation of myself coming back.
 This will be said by the angels. So he ascends and he is taken by the cloud, he ascends with the cloud, and they are watching, they are waiting, they don't know what to do, they are gazing into the sky.
 Sometimes we think that the purpose is to pray and to contemplate and just to be there in Heaven, experience Heaven, and that's it.
 In the divine service, just to be in this prayer state, no, this is important for receiving the commission and going and doing the work of the Lord until he comes.
 So basically Messiah, he accomplishes everything needed for everyone to come and participate in the celebration, in this symposium, this dinner that he presented, that he gives to us, and the fullness, the completion of this will be when he comes again.
 So there is this sort of gap that he creates between his first ascension and his second ascension.
 And we live in this gap and this is why it's called the latter times or the last times.
 All the time from the first ascension, from the first coming, from the ascension to the second coming.
 And then the two angels appear and they tell them. What the angels tell them is the Lord's message. Angels never speak from themselves, they never give interpretations, they say directly what they receive from the Lord.
 So this message comes directly from the Lord. This is why you're standing here. Why are you standing here, gazing up into Heaven?
 Jesus who ascended from you into Heaven shall come in a like manner as you have seen him go into Heaven.
 So his second coming will be in the same way. Also on the clouds, it will be on the final day of this world, on the last day. He will come for the great judgment and everyone will resurrect.
 Whoever is still alive, they will be renewed. They will be all facing, all the nations will be gathered to receive this final great judgment.
 And so all the nonsense about rapture, some millennia of happy life with Jesus and stuff like that, this is all heresy.
 We're waiting for the second coming of the Lord, the end of the Lord and then the new Heaven and new Earth.
 Which is mystery of course, we don't know exactly how it's going to be but we know that it will happen.
 And the problem now, there are several problems. First of all, let's think about the disciples who now go and for 10 days he tells them to wait in Jerusalem.
 Because Shavuot, Sukkot, this feast that will happen on the Pentecost, the Old Testament Pentecost is going to happen and many people are going to gather.
 So you also don't leave Jerusalem, you stay here and wait for what? For the promised Holy Spirit.
 So they don't go back to Galilee, they stay in one house, they pray. The mother of God, the most holy Theotokos, she is also with them, we see Maria, his mother.
 And they pray strongly, maybe whole day, they pray all together. Pray for what? Pray for the Holy Spirit, to receive the Holy Spirit.
 This is what they prayed, for this promise of the Lord to be fulfilled.
 And now I ask you, how many of us are praying now or ever, praying for the Holy Spirit to be received as the main goal of our prayer, the main petition that we have?
 Not many, not many of us. And basically if we don't have the Holy Spirit, we are not Christians, we are not Orthodox, we can call ourselves anything.
 But unless the Holy Spirit comes down and is guiding us, is enlightening us, is giving us life, we are not disciples of Christ.
 That's why they were praying so hardly, so earnestly to receive the Holy Spirit, to be worthy, to be capable of this mission.
 This New Testament, this new relationship with humans and God happens on the Pentecost upon receiving the Holy Spirit.
 So we are out of this testament if we don't have the Holy Spirit. This is important.
 And the Holy Spirit is not some fantasy, some stirring up emotions or some other crazy heretic delusion that many sects are practicing.
 No, that's not Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit is love, meekness of heart, following Christ, doing testimony, sacrificing ourselves for Him and for the people.
 This is truth of the Holy Spirit and many others at first, but these are the core. It's all about our heart and our ministry to Him, ministry to people.
 Our ascetism, our, why the ascetics, the saints, they are willing to go through such hard lives, undertake so many toil, is because they are craving for, they were craving for the Holy Spirit.
 They wanted to mortify this flesh and receive the Holy Spirit and be able to do what the Lord wants them to do.
 And all the heresies, all the schisms, all the worldliness of the church, all the sicknesses within the church are coming from the lack of the Holy Spirit, the communication with the Holy Spirit in people coming from their world, their departing from this path.
 And what this means, okay, you can imagine the church is waiting for his second coming.
 The disciples, in the early days, they were coming every year to that place on the Mount of Olives and looking into the sky, praying and expecting that he will come on this day back.
 For them it was evident that he is coming soon. However, soon for people and soon for God are different concepts.
 So he did not come in those days and after 10 years, 20 years, after 40 years, Jerusalem was destroyed, Church of Jerusalem was spread everywhere, dispersed.
 And then most of those disciples died and then another 100, 200, 300 years are passing by, 1000 years passed by.
 So there is this big temptation to say, "Oh, well, he is not coming then that fast, okay, so he is not coming in my lifetime, so why should I care? Why should I care so much about his coming?"
 So we care about other things. But as soon as we don't put his coming on the horizon of our life, we are losing this affiliation with the disciples who received this mission.
 We are not Christians anymore, so for us it should be this is the worldview, his first coming, his second coming, in between we have the great task.
 He is both in some way separated, but he is still in the Church with us, not as visible, not visible to others, but to us this is a reality which is certain and we witness this reality to everyone in this world.
 So the big delusion, seduction that the world was able to convey and reprogram our brain, that God, his creator, yes, he created the world according to some laws and we need to live according to these laws, but he doesn't interfere, he is just observing what we do here.
 And our task is just to do everything here according to his laws. So it's two different universes, this world of the Divine, God, and our world that we work in.
 Or we say some become dualist, like this, or taste, or some people become pan-faced. They say no, God is just everything, just nature, he is everything.
 So all these green movement and other things, they have behind them very often this idea that a new age and all that occultism, all that pagan garbage is pan-theistic, which becomes satanist eventually because it proves evil.
 Says evil is for the purpose of the good, it's two are working together and they become satanists, and tastes they become satanists.
 So what else happens? Also we see that the Holy Spirit will recover that division of the Babylon.
 But I will talk more about this when I talk about the Pentecost itself, which is completely different from this union of ecumenism, which is also fake and false, and it's a new Babylon actually.
 So everything, all the problems we have within the Church now, Orthodox killing Orthodox, and Orthodox priests are blessing the Orthodox to kill their brothers and sisters for some political, nationalistic, imperialistic, some earthly goals.
 Why? Because the life is brainwashed. And through this, we don't even notice it, that we are deists, we are no longer Christians, because this gap that happens we misunderstand.
 We take it, oh, gap, so he is far away and we are here, so we just need to do our things as we understand it. It's like two worlds. So people get into this worldliness and they support some evil lies, they think it's truth.
 And in the name of God, they go and do the deeds of the devil.
 So let us be away, detach ourselves from this world with these delusions. And especially during these days, and every time, pray for the Holy Spirit to come down and fill our hearts, and guide us, and give us the meekness of heart, the selfless self-sacrificing.
 A love towards our neighbors and even our enemies, if we might have such. And to forget to just abandon all other agenda, which is not motivated by the Lord, which has no truth in it, which is fake and sinful.
 May the Lord give us his grace. May the Lord send down his Holy Spirit upon every one of us. Merry ascension of the Lord. We will celebrate the ascension for eight days, beginning from this Thursday, even Wednesday night, and until the next Thursday.
 May the Lord give you blessing and his grace be upon you. Amen. Christ is with you.
