 Dear brothers and sisters, we approach the Holy Pentecost and at this time, before and
 after the Pentecost, we think deeply about the Holy Spirit, because this is the time
 when all the cycle beginning from preparation for the Great Land, then we have the Great
 Land, we have Holy Passion Week, we have Pascha, we have 40 days after Pascha ascension, and
 now we are coming to the fruits, because it is the goal of the Lord to establish His Church
 and to enter into the New Covenant, and this Covenant happens on the Pentecost, this Covenant
 happens when He says I will send you the power from on high, and if I don't go, I cannot
 send you the Holy Spirit, so it is by the power of the Holy Spirit that we are now united
 with Christ, and that we can be one in the body of the Church. So there are two misconceptions.
 One is people think, well, Holy Spirit is not about me, I just believe, I am just a
 regular person, I am not a saint, there is too much, I cannot change so much to become
 a saint, so it is not about me, Holy Spirit is something, we read in the books, we read
 in the lives of saints, but it is too high, it is too holy, it is something I can just
 read about, I cannot have experience of the Holy Spirit, which is very sad. Another big
 error, maybe even bigger, because, okay, another error is to think everything is Holy Spirit,
 any feeling, I have a special feeling is Holy Spirit, and those sects that have the speaking
 tones, or that have some ecstasy, some different kind of psychological and spiritual phenomena
 that comes from the Holy Spirit, people touch and they fall down and lose their conscience,
 or they are squeezed by some laugher or something, and oh yes, the Holy Spirit came down, so
 powerful. This is all fake, okay, well, not fake in the sense that it does not exist,
 but it is not Holy Spirit, it is some other spirit, maybe a disorder, maybe an evil spirit,
 but it is not Holy Spirit for sure, so today I want to say a few words about the Holy Spirit,
 because this is the time when we pray for the Holy Spirit, and if we want to renew our
 covenant with the Lord, we need to receive the Holy Spirit, it is not just "yes, maybe",
 we need to be in communication with the Holy Spirit. So what does that mean? First of all,
 the division by the Soul Spirit, which is very often used by the father, is a simplification,
 and usually we understand it by thinking that it is three parts of human, we have the bodily
 part, we have the soul part, which is psychology and personality, and we have the spiritual
 part, which is another part which is responsible for communication with the God and with other
 spiritual things. Well, this is not right, because the Spirit is not part of me, okay?
 First of all, there is just the Spirit, and there is Holy Spirit, okay? There are all
 kinds of spirits, and when we talk about the Spirit of someone, we're talking about something
 like a mode, or like a frequency that you receive, okay? If we have this analogy with
 the physics, okay? There is something that has a vibration, some kind of mode of existence,
 and today it's this mode, tomorrow it's different, or mood, say mood, I'm not in spirit today,
 I have a bad mood, I have a nice mood, okay? That changes, okay? It's not something that
 I have, you know, that is built into my, it's not like constituent of me, it's not part
 of me. So that's why the Holy Spirit is described as feeling us as though we are vessels, okay?
 So this is the biblical understanding of spirit, coming even back from the Old Testament, and
 St. David, he's praying, "Do not take away thy Holy Spirit from me," so it can be taken
 away. So, what are we talking about? Also, we remember the Lord himself said that first,
 the attitude, he said that, "Blessed are those who are poor in spirit, those who got rid
 of their own spirit." What is my own spirit? This is the mode which is brought, well, this
 is the spiritual, this is frequency, if you will, that is brought to me by my internal
 world, what I think about myself, what my goals are, what my internal passions, if I
 have a dirty soul, dirty heart, it's full of bad thoughts or some evil intentions, this
 will draw certain spirit, and I will have that spirit, or I will have some spirit which
 is like part of my personality, because this is the way I'm used to doing things, so this
 is, okay, I have some idea about myself, this idea is always here, so people are carrying
 this spirit with them, for example, somebody enters into the room, into an office, for
 example, and right away, if you are, most people can feel this thin reality, that something
 has changed, some person has entered, he has a very strong personality, usually he will
 bring some kind of spirit into the room, so people will be quiet or people will act differently
 because they feel this kind of spirit entered, and the Lord said that, "Blessed are those
 who are poor in spirit, those who got rid of their own spirit," and that's why this
 is humbleness, humbleness is when you don't have your own spirit, you destroyed, you crushed,
 all kinds of fantastic images about who am I, I'm John Smith, professor John Smith PhD,
 that's me, and I present myself in that way, I dress in that way, this is my way of doing
 things, this is personal spirit, which the Lord says, if you have your spirit, why do
 you need my spirit, why do you need the Holy Spirit, you already have some kind of spirit,
 so he doesn't enter into the hearts of such people, and that's why they are not blessed,
 if we want to be blessed, we need to get rid of our own spirit, we need to crush, destroy,
 and what happens if we receive the Holy Spirit?
 There are also misunderstandings, people think, well, if I would receive the Holy Spirit,
 I will be full of lies, I will be full of joy, I will have some kind of feeling coming
 with it, well, the Lord himself said that the kingdom of heaven will not come in a noticeable
 way, people will not say, here it is, or there it is, but here the kingdom of heaven is in
 your hearts, inside you, so it's not that it's always inside us, only when we have communication
 with the Holy Spirit, that's when it is, it's not, it's just always there, the Lord just
 said, oh, it's always there, no, that's the goal, so it will be not noticeable, like through
 physical feelings, it's not like warm, or it's like a breeze, or it's like a light,
 or it's like something else, we should not be expecting these kind of things, it was
 an exception when the Holy Spirit came down as fire upon the apostles, the main thing is
 not about fire, the main thing is that their hearts have changed, so now we are coming
 to the most important thing, what exactly happens, how do we say that we have some kind
 of communication with the Holy Spirit, we are on the right path spiritually, basically,
 first of all, think about some bad choice that you've made in your life, let's say you
 made a mistake, at some point, all of us do, a mistake that you always regret, after having
 done it, you have regret, remorse, you wish you would not do it, think about your mindset
 at the time, your internal world, why you made this choice, when you trace back yourself
 to that time, you would find out that most of the time you thought that that's the best
 thing for me to do at this moment, and this is why we were eager, we had the energy, we
 had the desire, and we've done it, at that time it was some passion, it would be greed,
 lust, vainglory, some kind of passion behind that decision, and that passion is, it brings
 with it some kind of spirit, and that spirit is pushing us towards that, our whole mind,
 our whole judgement ability, our heart, our everything will be aligned, of course, sometimes
 we know that what I'm doing is wrong, it's not good, sometimes that happens, but very
 often when we do something like that, especially before we became Christians, that was something
 that we thought that is good and right, and we're supposed to do it, we need to do it,
 we were under some kind of spirit, and basically the same analogy works for us now, craving
 for the Holy Spirit to come down, when he comes down, it will become for us easier and
 more natural to be willing to pray, to be willing to sacrifice ourselves for the sake
 of Christ, to be willing to abandon things that we were stuck to, to make choices that
 are in line with the Holy Gospel, to be willing to open and to look into the Gospel, some
 things which are now not really natural and we need to force ourselves to do that.
 The more we gain the Holy Spirit, the more our judgement, our internal world, our direction
 of our life, the choices we make, they become in line with the Gospel and the teaching of
 Christ.
 And we will find how to do it, we will find strength and dearness to do that.
 So many things are going to be changing if we will be gaining the Holy Spirit.
 Our part, our goal, we need to prepare the room, we need to prepare the ground, the vessel
 of our heart to be able to receive the Holy Spirit, especially this time, we need to think
 about it.
 Anything that I do, that I know is wrong will prevent me from receiving the Holy Spirit.
 So we need to tie up, we need to make sure the house is clean, there is nothing in it,
 that's against God's will.
 He will not enter in anything which is filthy and dirty and selfish.
 So that's our goal at this moment.
 So we are growing up in this world.
 We are absorbing the spirit of this world, the way it thinks, it's logic, it's everything.
 This is why for us it's so unnatural to truly become Christians and receive the Holy Spirit.
 We need to be ready to break away, so that's why very often the saints, all the people
 around them, they were calling them stupid or crazy, they could not understand why they
 are making those choices, why they sacrifice their life for someone who was crucified,
 some bandit who was crucified, why do that, can live a nice life.
 But their spiritual eyes were open, they saw Christ, they were craving for his kingdom
 and it was a terrible force which made them do all those works, those glorious works of
 testimony of Christ's love. And that's why Christ said that your enemies are the people who live with
 you, your relatives, very often, because they will be pulling you towards this wall. They will say,
 "No, you see, you need to make more money, you need to do this job, you need to marry this person, you
 need to do this, this, this, this." Okay, and they want it for your benefit, but this is benefit,
 earthly benefit. So Apostle Paul, he says that flesh is ruled by his own rules, and the fruits
 of the flesh is death and corruption. But fruits of the Spirit are, is life eternal, so we need to
 be living according to the Spirit, not according to the flesh. This is our choice, this is our desire,
 this is where we aim our whole life towards that. So let us ask the Lord to help us
 in this evil and corrupted world, adulterous sinful world, to be driven by completely different,
 not by those fake or evil spirits which exist in those sects and elsewhere, the spirit of delusion,
 but help us be driven by the Holy Spirit to be able to distinguish spirits, and to love only what
 is coming from the Lord, and not to love anything else that belongs to this world. May the Lord's
 blessing come down upon you, and his Holy Spirit be with you, and preserve this spirit all the time.
 May the Lord give us this blessing and grant to us gifts of the Holy Spirit, which are plenty,
 which are various, but we are lacking, we need these gifts, we need these gifts more and more,
 and this is the goal of our life. I mean, the Lord's blessing be upon you. Merry Pentecost.
