 "Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Pentecost!
 The Holy Apostles received the power of the Holy Spirit on the Pentecost to preach the
 Gospel to all the nations.
 Some of them stayed in Jerusalem, some of them went to other countries, eventually all
 of them, they've done this apostolic mission to both the Gentiles and to the Jews, and
 were crucified.
 They were killed, martyred, all except the Apostle John.
 So for an Orthodox priest or an Orthodox missionary, there is no higher blessing, no bigger blessing
 than to also do some mission in these holy days after the Holy Pentecost.
 So this year the Lord gave me this gift, glory be to Him.
 He gave me the gift to go again to Sri Lanka, to this blessed country, this beautiful country
 to preach the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
 If you remember, I came here last time in November, that was seven months ago last year,
 and at that time there were 33 people baptized here in the ocean.
 So since then the mission has grown, has developed, has some challenges, and today I want to share
 with you a little bit about what is happening.
 I just arrived here last night and today I go to the center of the island into the community,
 our community in the city of Kurunagala, and we will be visiting the believers.
 We will be doing the baptism, because since then another 15 members were prepared for
 the Holy Baptism, which is also a great achievement, and at this time the goal that I have also
 is to deliver some goods, some food to those in need.
 Actually this time my visit here is a blessing from the department of the foreign mission
 of the Russian Orthodox Church, who have a sponsor basically, who was willing to help
 these Sri Lankans who are in need after all these crises.
 Last year you know there was a political crisis and economic crisis, and it's not over yet.
 They had riots and shutdowns and all the supplies were cut, including energy, gas supplies,
 so it became here limited only to 20 liters of gas per week, and you had to get a QR code.
 I don't know if it's still like that, I'll check, but it became very limited and difficult
 for the people here, and many lost their jobs and were on the verge of hunger and had great
 social tension here, it was almost like a civil war is about to break out.
 So I'll see what's going on here now, because I have just arrived and I will deliver these
 foods, these goods to these people in different villages, this is part of the agenda.
 Another goal for this trip is to meet the pastors and the community leaders here in
 different towns who are interested in the Orthodox faith.
 We will be traveling to the south of the island in the place called Kol to meet some communities
 there and also we'll travel to other places.
 One is called Urugambala, another is Anamadua, Urugambala is not far from here, Anamadua
 is not far from Purunagala.
 Also this time, one retired government officer, he approached the Orthodox church, he called
 Moscow, he wanted to be baptized to know more about the church and they told me to meet
 with me, so he's actually coming in a few minutes.
 I'm now waiting for his arrival, we will meet with him and see what's going on and hopefully
 he'll also join our mission.
 He's quite influential, he is a director now of some big multinational company, so maybe
 he can also bring more people later to the church.
 We also have some challenges, this is of course a big disadvantage that nobody comes here
 to develop the Orthodox mission from any country, from Orthodox countries, from non-Orthodox
 countries, nobody is coming to Sri Lanka, this is a big pain and as a result we can
 see on my visit, not the previous one, the one before, we've met with one pastor, Pastor
 Gratia, who has communities in the north of Sri Lanka and those communities were also
 willing to become Orthodox.
 It's the area where Tamils live, I don't know if you're familiar, it's another national
 ethnic group which has its own language, the Tamil language, our own religion, they are
 Hinduist, unlike here it's Buddhism, majority of Sri Lankan is Sinhala, it's an ethnic and
 linguistic group and they are mainly Buddhists.
 In the north it's Tamil, they are Hindus and they are different, they look different, they
 have different culture and basically those groups were all in the Tamil area and we were
 really hoping to develop a mission there also, however, Pastor Gratia, he saw that there
 is not enough care and support from the Mother Church, our mission here is still in this
 process of initial, starting, taking off.
 So he joined another church, he joined Malankar Church, which is a monophysite, it's a heretical
 church which win all these heresy of monophysites that went to Syria and later India, so now
 it's based in India and they are developing their presence in Sri Lanka through this union
 with Pastor Gratia, he was ordained deacon, well he's still considering joining the Orthodox
 Church, I hope he can figure it out, Malankar, they call themselves Orthodox, but they're
 not, okay, so this is making it confusing for many people, they would think that Coptic
 and Malankar and Ethiopians are Orthodox but they're not, so hopefully Pastor Gratia will
 discover this substitute, this problem and he will become Orthodox, he will join the
 through Holy, only Orthodox, Apostolic Church, okay, so what else, basically this is all
 I wanted to tell you today and I will share with you more about this mission, please pray
 for Sri Lanka, for the wonderful people of Sri Lanka, that the Lord can enlighten them
 with the light of truth and can give success to the Orthodox mission, that many can enter
 into the body of Christ, can gain the true salvation and can glorify the name of our
 Lord Jesus Christ, now and ever and all to the ages, of ages I mean, merry Pentecost
 brothers and sisters, think about your own calling, if you have this calling to join
 the mission anywhere, Sri Lanka in your own country, in your own family, maybe not becoming
 a big missionary but becoming just someone who shares Christ, his love, the Holy Spirit
 that is uniting us with him, will carry it in us and share this love with others around
 us, may the Lord give you this gift of the Holy Spirit and give you the direction and
 guidance in your life and in your ministry to the Lord, Amen, God bless.
