 Dear brothers and sisters, we are coming to the age of One World Religion.
 It may sound fantastic, impossible.
 Today I want to explain why is it possible.
 And as a matter of fact, we already heard this announced.
 That one religion called Dadaism is coming.
 And it's coming big time.
 It's not going to be one of those small new religions that nobody really pays attention to.
 They're coming all the time, some new sects arising, coming and going.
 As a matter of fact, there is a sect called Ikuan Tao in Taiwan, which is all religions together.
 They have all the scriptures and they worship all gods.
 Well, it's similar in spirituality, you can say that, about such Luciferian religions.
 But it will be big, it will be completely different.
 And today I want to say a few words about what it's going to look like and what to pay attention to.
 Because it's already coming, we're already being pulled in.
 And I'm not talking about just Orthodox Christians, I'm talking about all the humans on Earth.
 What is it? Why is it so big?
 There was one writer, Father Seraphim Rose, Orthodox priest, who wrote in the 60s, in the 70s.
 He was a monk in monastery in the United States, in America.
 And he wrote one of his books, it's called "Orthodoxy and the Religion of the Future".
 And in this book, he talks about that.
 I don't recommend newcomers to the Orthodoxy to read that book.
 If your spiritual life is not stabilized yet, this might bring you to some misunderstanding, confusion and even fear.
 Because he talks a lot about the apocalypse and the end of times and the tribulations and how the world is being deceived.
 And it might be scary.
 Sometimes he is overdoing it.
 If you want to read about him, there is a book about his life, a nice book, that's a good place to start.
 There is also a book called "Nihilism", which is talking about different religions and philosophies and how the Orthodox faith is the true religion and the true philosophy.
 So, it is good to start with those two books and others don't rush.
 But when we read about this in his book and other prophecies, it seems something distant.
 Because how can you imagine? People are Buddhist, people are Hinduist, Muslim, Catholic, Protestant, for centuries, for generations.
 How all of a sudden they are going to receive and accept, embrace some new religion and this is a religion of the Antichrist.
 Well, let me explain.
 Many people now, they don't have actually any religion.
 Here in China, there is even a saying in Taiwan, "What is your religion?" and people say Shui Jiao, because it's the same.
 Jiao is a religion and Shui Jiao is to sleep.
 So, just fall asleep, just take it easy, don't go anywhere, just stay at home, don't go to church, don't go to temple.
 Well, that's a joke, but this joke has meaning to it.
 Because most people now, they consider themselves belonging to some church or some religion, but they don't practice it.
 And even if they practice it, they don't really live by it.
 It becomes like formal obedience to some rituals, etc.
 So, the faith that is alive is very few people have it.
 If they have it, like Muslims for example, you can say yes, these are fervent people.
 Well, their fervency is going to be rooted into this zealous worshipping of the religion of the future, which is Antichrist.
 It's going to be rooted there, so it's not going to be okay. Now you say, "No, I'm no longer Muslim. I believe in this one world religion."
 It's not going to be that.
 So, if it's been announced, deities, let's think about it.
 What brings humanity to receiving these deities?
 Total godlessness. I've talked about it maybe a couple of months ago in one of my videos.
 You can go back and see.
 So, godlessness. Life without God, no matter which religion, which tradition, without obedience to his law, without full disregard about family, values, and only mammon.
 So, a religion which is preceding death, we can call it mammonism.
 Mammonism is when you consider yourself Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant, whatever, Buddhist, but you worship mammon.
 In the way you live, in your values, in your daily routines, in your goals, what is mammon?
 Mammon is money, comfort, career, selfish interest.
 These earthly values, these things, this is mammon.
 People live for mammon, almost totally, almost everyone, I'm telling you this, including most of the Christians.
 Absolutely, absolute majority.
 So this mammonism, it brings about what?
 It brings about complete disregard to the content of their faith.
 And this brings huge success to ecumenism.
 Because when people disregard what they believe in, and they are told, guys, now you need to unite, of course they will go unite and build this fake common church, which will draw into it all branches of Christianity, as well as Hinduism, paganism, different kinds of other cults.
 And this is the reason why there is so big success, huge success of this movement.
 Well, formerly, maybe these are not united yet, but these boundaries between different religions and sects, they're almost gone.
 And that's why the pope goes and does rituals for Pashu mamma and Catholics study spirituality of yoga and Hinduism and practice all that pagan stuff, because they don't really see any difference.
 Because what they already worship is mammon, and there they find another version of mammon, and they combine these versions, and there is no problem, because they are already distanced far away from the true Lord and true spirituality, and they don't feel it and they don't have truth in them.
 And this also concerns many Orthodox, unfortunately, but there is still hope in the Orthodox Church, the only source of resistance to this movement we find in the Orthodox faith.
 So what else? What else can we say? We can say that this new religion will cancel any pluralism, any self-conscious thinking and decision-making.
 It will create data, data humans, not humans as we know them, but humans who lost their personality and who are guided by other imperatives, by AI.
 In the past, there was some societies were drawn into some myths, some narrative, what they call it now.
 Nazism, Hitler, Stalinism, but these were local phenomena, but now it's going to be global, and there was going to be global narrative. There was the book published by Schwab, The Great Narrative.
 Something along those lines is going to draw into itself all the people who know the world is segmented.
 It seems that the people are at war, but this chaos is preparing the path, because you see, people are ready to embrace new things when they are struck by some crisis.
 And this is what's going on right now. The people have been already hacked during the 2020 events, and now this hacking is going on, massively hacked, not on individual level.
 And we are entering into this age of tactics, and they are talking about these conversions of AI and human intelligence, which is, there is a roadmap.
 Every five years, some goals, up until the end of 2050, when the mind is going to be uploaded in the cloud and stuff like that, which might be just some exaggeration.
 But maybe these plans are not going to happen in those years. Maybe it's going to take longer or even faster. We don't know.
 But they're moving in that way and now it's officially announced and everything is working in that direction, including corporations, including the wars which are being fought.
 Basically, everything that's the development of new technologies is all dragging us, the humanity, in that direction.
 So at that point, people will lose their ability to have individual judgments, to have any, they will say this is the true freedom, when you have no freedom, when you just listen to the imperatives which are given to you.
 And eventually, how will this happen? Okay, receiving this new religion. At some point, they will come and say, you see, everything, all solutions are coming from the system.
 You have to be connected to this system when AI takes on all responsibilities for what you do, how you live, all your financial responsibilities, all your choices will be correct, advised by AI.
 Your health, your social rating, everything will be given and provided and helped for, controlled by AI.
 And they will not just say it's AI. At that point, they will say, do you believe that this is the source of all the goodies and all the salvation and all the wisdom?
 If you believe that, you receive it. And the people will be willing to receive it.
 And by saying that all the goods, everything good, everything beneficial, all the wisdom and everything is coming from being connected to that, they will have to abandon their trust in the Lord, in the obedience to the commandments.
 And they may remain formally Orthodox or Catholic or Hindu or whatever.
 This is going to be like just different costumes, just different appearance.
 But basically, they will be part of this one world religion because they will say that this is like a god.
 Because all the goods, everything is coming from that. It's predicting everything. It's predicting your future. It's providing the safety for you.
 It's doing everything for you. And people will receive that massively, totally everywhere.
 And that's why the Revelation says that both rich and poor, slaves and free men, all will receive this mark of the beast.
 It won't say it's mark of the beast, of course. It's going to be just some new QR code or something like that.
 ID 2020, 2040, 2140. We don't know when it's going to happen, but we can see it. It's coming.
 So let's not think that this is alarmism, that this is fear. We're not afraid of anything.
 We just need to understand not to be hacked ourselves, not to become part of this narrative leading us to worship the Lucifer.
 May the Lord be with us. Give us wisdom. Give us strength. Help us be autonomous in everything.
 Even if we lose everything, may we even lose our life. We will be faithful to our Lord, who is the source of all salvation and healing and wisdom.
 Amen. May the Lord be with you and keep you safe from all the evil I mean.
 God bless.
