 Dear brothers and sisters, last time I've talked about the one world religion which is coming, it's already here.
 And if you haven't seen the last video, please see that one first.
 Because today I'm going to talk about what can we do about this.
 Some subscriber asked me about that and I think this is an important question.
 So what's next?
 Well, in the last video I've mentioned the basis for Dadaism.
 And what is Dadaism? I hope you can do some research yourself if you don't know what that is.
 But the spiritual and even ideological basis for Dadaism is Mamonism.
 What's Mamonism?
 Mamonism is when you live for money, wealth, comfort, yourself, your passions, career, health, tasty food, enjoyment, anything.
 That has nothing to do with the Lord. When something becomes more important than the Lord, even if it's a good thing, say health.
 But if it becomes for you more important, that becomes your idol. And you selfishly follow and worship that idol. That's Mamonism. And that is apostasy.
 I've talked about it in one of my earlier videos. Godlessness. You can find it because I think it's important.
 It can be in the form of capitalism, in the form of socialism, in the form of new age.
 You can take all kinds of shapes and forms, but essentially it's Mamonism. It can even be as contradictory, like modernism as then post-modernism.
 And stuff like that. Humanism and this post-humanism. They seem to contradict each other. Or totalitarian or democratic.
 They could contradict each other, but that doesn't mean that this is not Mamonism.
 They're using that Marxist idea that progress comes from two opposites. Fighting with each other and then you have progress.
 And Marxism comes from Talmud. But that's another discussion.
 So the first thing that we need, if we don't want to become followers of this new religion, is we need to overcome this Mamonism in ourselves, first of all.
 Because all of us are polluted and enslaved to some degree by this Mamonism. You don't have to look for it too far.
 It's in you. It's in every one of us. Because of our old self, our flesh, our exposure to all this stuff from early childhood.
 So our sins, our passions. This is why we need ascetism.
 And to be more precise, I can say that as Dataism became the next stage after the era of Humanism, 500 years after the Reformation, we have this era of Humanism.
 First of all, we need to overcome this Humanism in ourselves.
 What is Humanism? Humanism is placing human things above Divine. Finding authority in myself instead of in the Divine.
 I'm not talking about Pope and Inquisition and all that kind of stuff and Middle Ages. But the trust was not in the Divine. The trust was in Human.
 And even in the Reformation, it became individual human who interprets the Bible in his way.
 That is the measure of truth for him. And that's the only truth that there is.
 So even in the Religion, this became the cornerstone aspect.
 And once we can throw away all these wrong ideas, concepts, we will trust the Lord.
 And we will trust the holy tradition of the Church. And we will find answers in prayer and in the holy teaching of the Church, including the Holy Scripture.
 And this brings us to the main tool, the main weapon, the main strategy that we need in order to withstand this deception. It is spiritual.
 We need to understand, even though it seems to be technological, we're talking about this digital stuff, technologies, this AI, this genetics and the digital currency and all that kind of stuff.
 However, we need to understand that behind this, if this comes as a new religion, behind it is a spirit.
 And this spirit wants to have total control of the human race.
 And this means that this spirit is playing God. And this means that he's against God. And who is against God is Satan.
 So now we see that there is this spiritual moving force behind all of this, which is Satan himself.
 So if you want to find Satan, don't expect that just by, I don't know, buying gold and silver or by making your cell phone or throw away your cell phone or making it safe from spyware.
 And any other physical strategy is not going to save you in the end.
 It can help to some extent, but if you don't have the spiritual weapons, if you don't have the basis for this struggle, you will lose eventually.
 He will find a way to trick you, to cheat you, to scare you and to make you surrender.
 So don't expect that these things will save you.
 I don't mean that you don't need all those things and strategies. You do. And I'll talk about that later.
 But the main goal for every one of us is spiritual goal. And what do I mean by that?
 We need to find anchor in Christ. We need to love prayer. We need to love ascetism, gay temperance, not controlling ourselves, not to be addicted, not to have any habits, not to have any dependency on the digital stuff and on material stuff to the extent possible.
 Of course, we cannot completely avoid this. However, we can try.
 At least, well, you can think in the past, if you would leave your cell phone at home, it's not a big deal.
 But now, these days, if you leave your cell phone, you're in trouble. You're worried.
 Maybe something happens. Maybe somebody wrote me something. Something important. I'm missing it.
 That means that you are dependent now. You're already hooked.
 We need to see this, at least, and then make ourselves independent of this stuff.
 If I try fasting away from digital stuff, I would completely throw away any gains.
 Because it's just waste of time and it's just polluting ourselves. Breaking, hacking our brain.
 These guys, they have the hacked brain and they go to war. Because they don't see the difference between killing in the game and killing in the real life.
 Their heart is already hacked. Their mind is hacked.
 So, you'll say, we're just playing Tetris.
 Tetris, any game, it draws your attention into it. And by drawing your attention to useless stuff, you live without God.
 You're alienated from him. You cannot think about him. You cannot pray.
 You're becoming split away from God. I hope you understand what I mean.
 For example, you can spend hours in some kind of activity like that and don't notice it.
 Why? Because you're switched off from the life with God.
 And that has tremendous effect on your soul. Put it that way.
 So, first of all, spiritual vector, spiritual strength with the Lord.
 We need to know what that means. We need this anchor of salvation.
 Myself, I often go to a monastery where they, well, first of all, pray all the time and do obedience to the Lord, which is a great spiritual experience.
 And also, they don't have internet, they don't have electricity, they don't have cell phones, nothing.
 So, this is very helpful for me. You can find a church, you can find community, you can find a monastery where you can go time to time to have some recharge.
 To talk about spirituality with other people. Because it's really difficult to withstand this stuff just on your own.
 We're too weak, our faith is too weak. So, we learn, we try, we pray.
 However, you might need some spiritual guidance or at least some people who are also loving Christ with whom you can pray together, talk, see their faith, experience their faith.
 And that will be very important for you. And also, that means that you can escape there in case things get bad and you cannot withstand.
 Hopefully, we can do testimony. If things are going the bad way, the best that we can do is not to run away to some mountains, deserts, forests.
 The best thing, if you're able to do it, is to witness the truth in the midst of all that Kingdom of Antichrist. Put it that way.
 The second thing. Well, if that is impossible, then you need some kind of place to escape.
 First of all, where you will feel spiritually safe. You need to learn to be spiritually safe anywhere.
 With Christ, you can be anywhere and you'll be spiritually safe in the midst of the war. But it's not that easy. That's our goal.
 Other stuff. I won't say a lot, because my goal is to preach the Lord and to talk about spirituality.
 Regarding other things related to this technological era, this technotron era or thetaism, you can learn a lot about it, and you should, from many experts.
 There are many people. Try not to look only at the positive. Now they're filtering out, they're censoring everything that has any negative connotations, speaking about AI and all this stuff.
 Try to read different stuff from different viewpoints. One thing is about this digital control that's coming. Many people talk about it.
 They give you practical advice what you can do not to be so vulnerable to this control, which is going to get worse and worse.
 Smart city, everything virtual, digital ID, e-currency and all that kind of stuff.
 You can learn more about it, what it is, how does it influence you. Some people don't even know what's e-currency.
 How do you avoid any slavery coming with it if you don't even know what it is?
 Do some more education. This is not my goal. My goal here is not to explain all those things.
 Another thing, another important field that we need to be knowledgeable about is the field of psychological and social change that is happening with this new era that is coming.
 How do they hack the human brain, the human soul, the way we communicate, how our memory works, how our self-awareness is being destroyed.
 And many other things on the psychological level, on the social level, interaction, how this changes, the way we interact with each other.
 On the philosophical level, how the economy is all influenced and the basic income that they want to introduce, how it's going to work.
 All these things we need to be knowledgeable about.
 It's about self-education and maybe even taking some programs to know what that is and what those technologies involve.
 Because this attack which is happening is coming from all directions. They want to create a new world.
 You need to know all of this, more or less, to be ready. But as I said, the most important is the spiritual basis. Without it, you cannot do anything.
 I think the basic goal for every human right now is just to survive, not to die. With all these wars they are pushing people into. With the pseudo-culture which is propagating drugs and unhealthy food.
 All kinds of stuff. You know more about vaccinations, about many things. Not to die. That's one of the goals that we have.
 If you die for nothing, you're killed. You're out of the equation. This goal, just not to die, is the basic goal. It's important.
 Because we know as a devil, he is willing to kill people and also kill their soul. To destroy their soul. And all of us, spiritually speaking, we need more time for repentance, for serving the Lord, for coming closer to Him.
 We do need that time, so we don't want to die too soon, unless we are martyrs.
 Not to believe any propaganda, as I said. Don't believe news and the people who are talking about fake news, usually they are propagating the fake news. You should know that.
 I'm not saying you need to believe reptiloids and aliens and all that kind of stuff which is called crazy conspiracy, healthy conspiracy.
 We know that there is a devil's conspiracy against humankind. The Apostle Paul is telling us about it.
 This is a mystery of the lawlessness that is working in there. Many things, many plans of the devil, they are not open. Although now they are getting more and more open.
 So this healthy conspiracy, that's what I say. That means that we compare, we study, we read many different things. We are always open to alternate ideas about things.
 Especially if they are grounded, if they are well backed by some information, by some analysis. So all of that, don't believe too much. Don't be in the mainstream.
 If you are in the mainstream, you are going to be like that herd of swine which was just rushing into the sea from Persepius and they died. We don't want to be that.
 For myself, I decided I won't ever use Chant TPD. I don't want this. I can afford it. I don't want to use e-currency. Well, some of you won't be able to avoid it because it's going to be a business.
 You have to sell stuff and people are going to give you these e-cards. But as much as we can, for myself, I decided I'm going to avoid it. I'm not going to use it to the extent possible.
 And of course, all these biopassports and all this e-stuff, this fancy e-stuff. They say it's going to give you safety, it's going to give you whatever. No, it's going to give you slavery.
 So, that's important. And all other things, the Lord himself will tell you in your life situation what you should do. Now, what you should do to avoid that.
 But the first and foremost is our ministry to Christ. It's not just to save ourselves from all that stuff, but how can we serve the Lord in the midst of all this craziness which is going on.
 So, this is important. Don't be just afraid of how do I avoid it. No, we should be thinking about how do I serve the Lord in the midst of all this stuff.
 Maybe I just need to do a mission, or do some ministry, or sacrifice my time for something. Not being afraid of this and that.
 So, think more about this. And to have the Lord's guidance in that, you'll need to love the prayer. You'll need to have some spiritual life.
 So, these are some things which I want to share with you. May the Lord give you strength, strengthen your faith, give you wisdom, give you guidance, and protect you and all your family and friends from all the deception which is coming. Amen.
 God bless.
