 Dear brothers and sisters, The If only church is facing great challenges this time, and to understand and to deal with these challenges we need to look at what happened in the past and how the devil is trying to destroy the church.
 One of the key temptations even in the time of the Old Testament was the temptation to control the church, the temptation of the leaders, at that time it was the leaders of Israel, Judea, the Old Testament church, not to bring people to the Lord.
 But to control these people. This control became the goal for them, the power.
 And actually even some modern authors who are talking about politics in our age, if you read George Orwell, 1984, the goal of those who rule is power.
 It's not to make people better, it's not to change their mindset, their ideology, the ultimate goal of everything is power itself.
 So these are similar things, and this actually comes from the temptation of the devil who told that you will be like gods. Why do you need to obey a god? If you can just obey yourself, and you can build your own little world without any help from him.
 You are smart, you have these capabilities, and you can do that yourself.
 And the devil himself fell victim to this temptation, that he wanted to be like god.
 So eventually this was in the Old Testament, and later we see this temptation coming in Papacy. And we will see that this problem of Papacy in the church, it goes to the Roman church, then it goes to the Protestants, and then it goes to the Orthodox itself.
 So this problem of Papacy is still with us, with the Orthodox. I'm not talking about Catholics now.
 And we'll see that this temptation of Papism is actually destroying the world now, and it's bringing us eventually, us, I mean the world, to receive this rule of the Antichrist eventually.
 Why? How is all of this related?
 Well, you see, if you want, and I want to explain that this is not a problem of administrative structure, it's the problem of faith. What do you believe?
 And how do you follow Christ? How do you live by your belief, by your faith?
 So we can imagine, say you want to influence someone, and you want him to accept your ideas, or to do something that he doesn't want to.
 You try to persuade him, but you will fail. Then what do you do? You find someone whom he can trust, and you can try doing it through that person.
 Say, wife, or children. So you will try to do that. So when the devil wanted to bring Christians away from true faith, away from true worship, he could not influence everyone.
 So he needed someone that they can trust, so that through him he can lead them astray.
 So he persuaded people that, Pope, there should be one person whom you can trust, and he will represent Christ, and just follow what he says.
 So that was the temptation, but the goal of this temptation, I mean the whole people, would receive this temptation to establish this one leader.
 The ultimate goal is what will happen next, what will be transmitted to all of these people through this person.
 And we see all subsequent heresies and mistakes in the Catholicism and different spiritual practices.
 They eventually were accepted by everyone because they were approved by the Pope, including this sect, these Charismatics in the 70s.
 They were also approved by the Pope and became part of the Catholic Church, which is not the Church by the way.
 Because we believe in one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church, which is the Orthodox Church.
 So we see that the Roman Church, which once was Orthodox, was tempted and was pulled away from the body of Christ, which is the true Church.
 And later, this virus of Papism, it penetrated the minds of everyone in the Roman Catholic world.
 And this is why when the Protestants broke away, their mindset was that each of them is a small Pope, that he doesn't need any authority, he doesn't need anything.
 He can just believe what his carnal fallen nature will tell him about faith, and that's gonna be his confession, that's gonna be what he believes, that's truth, and he will establish his own Church based on that.
 What a nonsense.
 So these people became small Popes, and this opened the way to what we have now, this paved way for this transhumanism which we have now.
 Because at that time, when people lost one authority, they lost truth, they lost understanding that there is truth.
 So everyone was seeking for his own truth, but eventually it became the truth, the first step was the truth is money, you make money, that's real, that's truth, pragmatism.
 And eventually then it came to what we have now, that the truth will be decided by AI.
 It will tell you what is the truth, what you should do, what you should believe, and that's gonna be the next stage.
 So this was a paving way for what we have now on the global scale already, not on the Protestants.
 So we see how this spiritual sickness is coming and then eventually trying to destroy the whole world and making it subject to Antichrist rule in the end.
 But now let us come back to the problem that we Orthodox are facing.
 Because on the level of church level, not talking about the whole world, now talking about the church itself, every patriarch, every bishop also would have this temptation.
 So you would ask, okay, so what was the model of the Church of Christ? The model for the Church of Christ from the time of the apostles was that there are some people who are separate from this world, from the things that are attractive in this world.
 They don't have any attachment. They are monks. They are people who don't have their property, who don't have their secular goals, land, money, some cottages.
 They don't have anything of that. And also they care about the whole church. That's how they become bishops. And they were set by other bishops who have a similar spirituality.
 So that's why one bishop is set up by at least three other bishops. So he would be chosen as the right candidate to become a part of this body.
 So it were these people who would decide. So this was not democracy. Don't make a mistake.
 So now the criticism of Orthodox Papism is not coming from this liberal idea that, okay, we need democracy. That's too much. You have someone control everything that's not democratic, that's totalitarian and all this liberal rhetoric.
 No, because it's also destructive. For the church, if you go democracy, you'll destroy the church. Because the people, just regular believers, most of them, they don't know much about theology, about teaching of the church, about spirituality.
 They are not monks. They are not focused on the spiritual life. So they would have a lot of earthly, worldly ideas.
 They would also have their, you could say, some earthly interest, like a class, say. You would say bishops, why they don't become a class? They don't become a class because they don't own anything.
 So they don't need to lobby their own bishop interests. That's how it's supposed to be. Of course, in the reality, it's not exactly like that.
 And also the people at the bottom, the regular believers, they would tend to demand more soft, relaxing, no need for a lot of fasting. That's why Protestants, they try that and they cancel all the fasting.
 They don't need any ascetism, nothing. They don't need monasticism. That's what happens when you just allow just everyone to decide what they want, what they will decide.
 They will decide, just eat, drink, enjoy your life. But the Christian faith is not about that. It's about killing your old self and following Christ, taking up your cross, following Christ.
 So we do need some people who are fully dedicated with church matters. We remember the apostles. They chose deacons because they didn't have time to care about the dishes and tables and providing financial help to widows and all that stuff.
 They just focused on the preaching of the word. So we need those people who are focused on spiritual life and who have experience, who are closer to the Holy Spirit than the majority of church members.
 So those people together, they would make decisions fighting for the whole church because it will be coming from the Holy Spirit and they don't need any one guy who is in charge of all of them.
 They can do. They are equal in that sense. So that's the ideal to which we should strive. But practically we have this big problem now with puppies.
 The church members, they also want to entrust everything. The ruling synods say they will decide. And we don't have responsibility, we just follow what they decide.
 And these patriarchs or synods, they also have this tendency to say we have the full power so we just decide everything.
 And then they have worldly interests and so on and so forth.
 And this makes the whole church more prone to being hacked by this worldly obedience to some higher authority without thinking, without this safety net composed of these monks, bishops, holy people who would be discerning the spirits and saying "oh this is wrong, we don't follow that".
 So this is one problem which we are facing in the Orthodox Church and most of the quarrels between the churches are also coming from that.
 And another problem which is somewhat related to this is bureaucracy. It's too much church bureaucracy which is coming also. There was a good reason for having some bureaucracy because you need some order in the church.
 We function in this world so we need to not just have some running around and making decisions based on mood. We need some order, we need some paperwork, we need some application, blessing, this, that, some standards.
 However, this is a tool, this is not the goal. When the tool becomes the goal or the form becomes more important than the content, then you have the surrender to this technotronic.
 This data is what I've talked about last time. It's coming from this obedience to some mechanism, bureaucratic system that this is how it's supposed to be and this is how it's done and all goals.
 There is no human factor. We exclude human factor. It's more efficient. Well, it might be, but the church is where the human factor is. That's where Jesus is.
 So if you exclude the human factor, you exclude Jesus. You become, you worship this system, this inhumane technocratic, technochronic system.
 So this bureaucracy also would bring the church if we overemphasize, if we become worshippers of this bureaucracy, we will be brought into this future world, which will be all about obedience to these forms and norms given by AI.
 So they're already talking about AI being introduced in the church and they have a robot priest in Germany already.
 So let us think about these things. Let us know what should be the priorities.
 And all of this is not just some management. This is just how to run the church. No, this is directly related to the faith because who is Christ to the church?
 It's the head of the church. It's not just some idea. What is the church? It is the body of Christ.
 It is not just some enterprise or some government structure, organization, institution.
 So if we mix these things, if we forget about what is the true church and who is Christ, and then we need to follow him and not just some bureaucratic message, then we will be Orthodox.
 We will be true Christians. Otherwise we might call them ourselves Christians, Orthodox Christians, but we won't be. We'll be far away and we will be alienated from the living God.
 May the Lord save us from all this deceit, from all this temptation. May he give wisdom to all the bishops and patriarchs who are in charge of the Orthodox churches, local churches, and bring them to the unity of faith.
 And make them rightly administer the word of his truth. Amen.
 God bless.
