 Dear brothers and sisters, we often focus on the external threats. No matter on individual level
 or church level, we always talk about external enemies, persecution of the church, temptations,
 Antichrist is willing to conquer us. All those heresies, satanists, world government,
 those people who design sicknesses,
 those globalists who have all the power, who want to brainwash, to control the world.
 Heresies, all kinds of external threats. The world is going crazy. There's so much sin.
 They have wrong values. They seduce children. It's all they. It's all about them.
 Okay, all the problems. This is another temptation which makes us disarmed, which makes us...
 we fail. We fail both spiritually and in terms of life situations. And the right way to
 change that is to think deeply about the threats that are coming from within. For example,
 these threats, they create fear. But when I think, for example, when I had the greatest fears in my
 life. That was during the periods when I was far away from God. Maybe that was in a young age and
 you make mistakes. And in those days I felt fear about everything. About the future, about people,
 about myself, about many things. And you can notice that whenever we depart, we drift away
 from God, less prayer, or we do wrong things, we say wrong things, we have unclean thoughts,
 many fears are coming. And this explains something. This explains, it's just an example of
 how the internal state of your soul is crucial, is important for the overall
 success. And I'm talking about spiritual success, success as a Christian, success in following
 Christ, in doing the right mission in your life. And the same is true for the Church,
 for the overall Church. Because the Church, when it says that everything, all the threats and
 all the bad things are coming from outside, it is putting herself, the Church, she is putting herself
 into a position of a wronged victim, or holy and shiny agent in this world, without need of
 self-criticism, without need of reflection and change. And this creates great, great problems.
 This creates problems, hypocrisy and blindness. Whenever there is blindness, either on individual
 level or on Church level, this is a big, big threat. So, first we can list some threats which
 we're usually talking about in the Church. We can be talking about the influence of the society.
 People are sinners, the society is consumerist, people serve mammon, everybody is greedy,
 everybody wants comfort, and we are influenced by that. This is a big threat for Christianity.
 Or, say, some wrong teachings, heresies, wrong religions, this paganism, new age, yoga,
 all this kind of stuff. Talking more about religious yoga, but just the regular yoga can be
 harmful because of the whole mindset and lifestyle that comes with it, which is pagan,
 essentially. And it's even Luciferian, you can say, because it is replacing God with Lucifer.
 And many other things, okay, many other threats. We can be talking about
 economic political threats, we can be talking about family threats coming from family, from
 trauma, from a bad example within the family. We can be talking about wrong values being
 propagated, such as abortions, and the sodomia scene is not a scene, and many other things.
 There could be just propaganda of sin that we have through commercials, through videos, through
 movies, everywhere. You can see it everywhere. But it's also external things, political propaganda,
 that you have to support some political party, or movement, or war, something like that. You
 have to be involved. This is a threat, this is a real threat coming from outside. But all these
 threats, they would not be harmful to us if we would not have those loopholes or, you know, it's
 like a broken vessel. It has those cracks through which the water goes. We have those cracks
 in our soul, and all those external threats are harming us because of those cracks, more or less.
 So, the solution to this, we can say that it's reciprocal. It goes two ways. We have problem
 with our perverted, sick heart, soul, and we have the external problem, and they are making
 things worse. This is a two-way process, so it's not all coming from within, not all coming
 from without. It's one integrated process, let's call it that way.
 And the healing to this is not some self-persuasion. It cannot be artificial.
 The healing to this comes from God himself, from his grace, and our goal is to
 grow in Christian virtue, to become more humble, to love the prayer, to pray more,
 and step by step. This will make us see things differently, this will make us invincible against
 sin, and all these external things. They will not be harmful, they will not be able to harm,
 and many of them we won't even notice. And you can also think about your day. If you begin this day
 with a prayer, and you pray during the day, and you have the right mindset about what you do,
 why you do that, I'm telling you, this will be a successful day, spiritually successful. Even if
 this is a worse day in your career, in your family life, some big big threats are happening,
 coming from without, from outside, still you will not fall, and you will feel that this day is a
 success. So this is something very important to always remember, and not to lose this focus.
 The same goes for the whole church. The whole church we should not promote too much,
 so it's all everywhere, it's something bad coming to us, we have to be careful and
 we have to fight against this. This is true, but this is only partly true.
 And what it can lead to, this wrong idea, it can lead to two things.
 It can lead to the same result. It can lead to two things. You can begin saying that,
 okay, no matter what happens, it's all in God's hands, so I cannot influence anything,
 it's all in God's hands, so we don't need to do anything, we don't need to fight with this evil,
 because we cannot do anything. And another thought is that, no, everything is in the hands of world
 government and those bad guys, and also I cannot do anything. So we become slaves, no matter which
 mindset we have. We're more positive, we say it's all in God's hands, but I cannot influence
 anything. We become slaves of everything that happens. And we say, oh yes, we become slaves,
 because we're humbles, we're slaves of God, we're servants of God. This is distortion,
 this is distortion of orthodox Christianity. And another is to say that everything is in
 the hands of devil and antichrist and those people, and also we cannot change anything,
 so we became slaves. They will tell us what to do, to put needles, to do something else,
 to put a chip in your hand, in your forehead. They will do everything and we just accept it,
 because we cannot change, eventually. So we should not be on either of these paths,
 thinking that we're orthodox, and there is no other option. This is the only way to
 face, to think about this world and what's going on. Both of these world views are distorting
 orthodox faith. In the orthodox faith we have to begin from within. We know that the biggest
 problem is me, myself. I have to be fixing this problem every day, all the time. And also,
 as I am fixing it, my internal state will influence things that are going on, the way
 I do things. This can have a dramatic impact in this world, but I have to fix myself first.
 So this is the solution to these mistakes, to these distortions,
 and may the Lord help us, may the Lord give us the wisdom and give us the motivation to
 change ourselves, to become wiser, to become true soldiers, and to contribute
 to the mission of the Holy Church in this world. I mean, may the Lord
 help you and give you his wisdom. I mean, God bless.
