 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord told to his disciples to be vigilant.
 He said that at the end of times there will be many fake prophets and many fake christs who will come and deceive many.
 And you have to be vigilant because you don't know when your Lord will come.
 Either he will come at the midnight or the cry of the cock or will be at the dawn.
 You don't know, so you have to be vigilant.
 And also when he prayed in the garden of Gethsemane before being captured, he also told to Peter and other disciples to be vigilant, not to sleep.
 So this topic of keeping the guard, keeping the watch, is very important.
 And it is important to think deeply about what does it mean.
 Of course, right away we see that this idea that "believe and you are saved" is just nonsense.
 It's a complete nonsense because you can believe and then fall asleep and maybe never even wake up.
 So to be vigilant is the goal of spiritual life.
 And there are many different types of being vigilant, being awake.
 And there is even the negative Awakenedness, the infernal Awakenedness of the demons.
 And there is Awakenedness of the zombies into which many people are converted our days.
 But before talking about this, I want to say a few words about the concept of being vigilant.
 Because we need to deeply research what does the word itself mean.
 Because it's not just you're either asleep or you're awake.
 Just this meaning of being awake.
 It's not that simple.
 To study that we need to go deeply into languages.
 We need to look into Hebrew, in Aramaic, in Greek, in English language, in the Slavic languages.
 Many languages and they could give us some interesting insights into this concept of being awake.
 Just to name a few of them. It also can mean to be active and in some way even alarmed.
 In a good sense. So it's being very lively. It's not just you're awake but you're depressed and you don't notice things.
 No, it's being very alive, you know, full of life. Also life and action.
 Also it can mean to pay attention to something. That your attention is focused.
 Another meaning is to guard, to preserve, to keep, for example, keep commandments. To preserve commandments.
 To comply to some commandments or to keep the word. The Lord said you have to keep my words in you in yourselves.
 This is keeping of the word of Christ. Of his commandments. Of God's mission. Holding fast to it.
 That also is implied in this word. Also it can mean to notice something.
 Which is different from attention. Notice is like discover. You notice things. What's happening.
 So that's why very often Christians were called conspirologists and secret society because it was...
 they were doing many things in secret and they were talking about things which were not evident to everybody.
 They knew things. So this ability to notice something slight.
 Something that others don't notice. This is also implied in this word.
 And also related to this is the idea of finding out, discovering, and learning.
 Extracting some knowledge from the situation. From what's happening.
 Or directly from the Lord. What is his will? What is his message to you?
 So we can say this epistemological meaning. To draw knowledge. Draw some information.
 Some wisdom from things which happen from your experience etc. And also to recognize.
 To recognize whom? Recognize Christ. Recognize people of Christ. Recognize enemies of Christ.
 Recognize Antichrist. Servants of Antichrist. Okay? So this... you remember that
 he told those Pharisees and scribes that you recognize the face of the sky.
 You can tell the weather and stuff like that but the signs of times you don't recognize.
 We have to recognize signs of the times. That's also implied in this word.
 And also to wake up. To wake up yourself or to wake up others. This is also implied in this word.
 It's not just being awake but it's also waking up. Every day maybe you need to wake up
 to recognize something. To understand something. To find out something.
 So all of these meanings they are related to the word being vigilant.
 Staying on guard. So this is a great task and great virtue for a Christian which is necessary.
 It's absolutely necessary. That's why Christians they loved vigils from the ancient times.
 Those prayers during the night. I won't talk much about this today but that's another big important
 topic. What does it mean? Why they were doing it? How can we do it today? But today's topic is
 not that. Today's topic is what is the right vigilance and what is the fake and false
 vigilance. In terms of the right vigilance it also can have many different dimensions.
 Okay we can talk about. But today let me make it more simple and just generalize it in two
 types of vigilance that we need. The first type is very basic. It's we can call it worldly
 vigilance. Which is even though it's basic but most people now lose it. Okay that's scary what's
 happening now. What is it? It's having the conscious consciousness about what's happening.
 This is another important. Okay this relationship of vigilance and consciousness
 and vigilance and conscience and vigilance and conscientiousness. This is all
 important topics to discuss. Okay let's talk about conscience. Okay now the mainstream
 in anthropology, in philosophy, in science generally is to eliminate conscience. To say that
 it's not possible. Okay there is no free will, there is no conscience. Humans are just actors
 on some impulses. It's all just a flow of reactions to the external world.
 And this is called behaviorism or physicalism. Okay this is a big topic also to discuss. But
 those trends they bring us to perceiving human beings as say animals. Okay they're just a work,
 they live according to, they are completely determined by economic factors, whether
 you know biological factors, okay physical parameters. Those things they completely
 determine who you are. Your thoughts, your imagination, everything is just neurons in your brain
 and that's it. Okay there is nothing spiritual, there is nothing you know, there is no
 self. Okay we have it in Buddhism for thousands of years already. Okay so it's not something new.
 This is reductionism. Okay to reduce humans to these basic physiological
 physio cycle agents. Okay so and people truly lose conscience. They became just part of this herd
 where everybody runs you run. Okay what everybody says you say there are some strata. Okay these
 people they support democrats, they support republicans, but they think in the very programmable
 and very okay you can make a model of them. Okay why this is important? Because they can make model
 of the society and they can predict and they can control and they can brainwash everybody so much
 that people will enjoy this lifestyle. Becoming slaves, becoming just like robots, like animals,
 they don't need conscience. They become zombies and this is where we are at. It's much
 closer than you think this kind of world. So this is a basic this is a basic
 vigilance that we need. Vigilancy is will you awake you understand. No this is all fake,
 this is all illusion, this is this is brainwash. Okay some people they discovered it after
 stopping you know using gadgets so much in watching movies again and other things
 because very you you live in your information bubble. Okay they give you stuff that you like
 and you think that's the whole reality and everything that's against it you just
 reject you just cancel it doesn't have any existence for you. So this is something
 very basic if we don't have this vigilance we cannot talk about spiritual vigilance
 which is the goal. Okay and to have the spiritual vigilance of course we need to understand
 who we are where we go here that we have responsibility we have a mission we have a task
 in this life why people don't want to make create families and give birth to children because they
 don't want to have responsibility and they don't understand what is sin they they don't want this
 concept of sin because no conscience and no consciousness. Okay they are related you don't
 have consciousness you won't have conscience. Okay it's just some fake dogmas that you have
 there is no conscience just do whatever you you feel like doing. Okay like what your body says
 and you become slave of the flesh that's what the apostle Paul is telling us. So they want to make
 everybody the slaves of flesh and we want to become slaves of the spirit and to become slaves
 of the spirit servants of the spirit ministers of Christ we need to gain this personal
 vigilance and then we also need to gain the true vigilance and the true vigilance
 comes from spiritual life ascetism prayer word of God the holy gospel the holy communion holy
 sacraments and having protection against all the garbage that they want to throw into our hearts.
 Okay get it out of our conscience and subconsciousness okay
 and step by step our spiritual eyes will be opening and we will learn how to be vigilant
 spiritually which is not an easy task and can be accomplished only with the grace of the law.
 Having said this these are okay today I'm talking about basic framework I'm not talking about the
 details okay and also we can we can discover okay that there is a negative vigilance okay or
 diabolical vigilance call it zombie vigilance what is it okay also two types okay the zombie
 vigilance is when you're vigilant you're slaves of mammon of riches of your I don't know fake goals
 career or some other passions that you have desires and you become very vigilant about this
 for example you are playing on the stock market you are completely immersed in this
 world of money and that's all you care about that's you know you you you really
 possessed by by by this this you know speculation in the market you have to be vigilant you have to
 watch what's happening all the time read all kinds of news do analysis make models you have to be
 completely immersed that you have to be vigilant but that's a different kind of vigilance
 and so zombies they are not asleep zombies can be very much active and very much
 awake but in a different sense and also there is the diabolical this uh infernal vigilance because
 uh devil himself he's never asleep 24 hours he is awake so uh people who serve demon who are moved
 by the the demons um they are also vigilant so for example you live in sin say you're a thief
 you you harm people you you you you serve the devil okay you have to be vigilant you have to
 always watch who left his back okay who doesn't pay attention to something you grasp that thing
 okay you steal that thing uh or say uh you you want to um increase your sect okay you you you
 seduce people so that they will bring money to you and you will brainwash them you have to be
 vigilant you have to be always watching for people who are who can slip into the net of your sect
 okay and that's what they do through by seducing people through internet through tv they have to be
 always okay 24 hours uh put all their time and energy into everything and then later to control
 all the people they will have to watch them 24 hours that's also being vigilant they have to
 be vigilant but that will be coming from the devil okay the goal is to enslave people to
 deprive them of the rights of their property and eventually of their heart of their soul
 to take possession of their soul so this diabolical vigilance is also out there
 and we should not mix it all together okay we should know that it's a different thing
 completely if you're servant of devil you cannot be at the same time
 awake in terms of serving christ so please think about this
 zombies they don't have consciousness they don't have a conscience okay they don't have
 moral values okay they they don't serve the lord okay but they are vigilant in some way
 so let us not mix this together not to become enslaved by this world okay not to become
 living uh corpses which are zombies okay the lord said let those uh dead men bury their dead men
 dead men is is who is who is alive is a zombie so you can be a zombie and many people become zombie
 okay in two two senses okay so if you're uh aware of this uh digital enslavement
 you are conscious you're vigilant but that's not enough if you don't live for christ if you don't
 love christ if you don't hear his message you're still zombie it's just a different type of zombie
 maybe not as bad but it's it still will not take you to the heavens to to salvation
 but this is the right direction okay this is good direction at least you can make a decision and you
 can um okay uh be a master of your own self and you can take upon yourself the mission and
 responsibility of becoming the servant of god let us see through all the deceptions that there exist
 avoid any deception any laziness okay any sleep okay our fallen self is always
 tending towards resting okay relaxing okay falling asleep let us not have that we're servants of
 christ we're warriors of christ and warrior cannot be asleep okay so let us learn how to
 be awake to be vigilant and especially how to be spiritually vigilant
 may the lord help you and give you his rich blessing i mean
