 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about one of the important aspects of the darkness,
 of the evil of this world, because very often we don't notice it. We see evil when it's war,
 or some, you know, immoral behavior, okay? Something harmful, something sick, something bad,
 okay? We see evil. However, evil very often comes in a form of emptiness, okay? Some form of
 emptiness. And today I want to bring some examples that you will see that today's world is built on
 this emptiness, okay? We have a fake empty culture, pseudo-culture, anti-culture, okay? Destructive.
 We have a surrogate of science, okay? When most of the scientific papers, they can be written by
 chat gpt, okay? More or less, okay? Or soon, okay? Most of them. 85 to 90 percent. That means that
 most of the stuff that people write is so many publications, but most of it is just the same
 thing, okay? There is no scientific breakthrough in those, especially humanities, but not only
 humanities, even in the physical sciences this happens. There is a big problem with religions,
 okay? We have these religions that used to be big, okay? Some organizations, but then we see that
 they only have this shape, and behind is the same emptiness. It's either greed or, you know, some
 I don't know, some prestige or business. Usually it's just business, because it's just making money,
 okay? Or just people don't really believe in what they preach, and they have different goals,
 and it just happens to be that they do this job. So it's a fake, it's a surrogate, okay? Surrogate
 religions, surrogate monasticism, surrogate patriotism, okay? Many, many surrogates. We saw this
 with the, when in 2020 everybody just accepted the whole thing, okay? This craziness, this nonsense
 that everybody just, okay, didn't even try to go against, not everybody, okay? But those big
 organizations that people were hoping that they have some ideas, some values, okay? They can
 say something. No, they could not even do anything, okay? They completely comply to
 this agenda, okay? So there are many very worrying signs of what is happening, okay,
 of this emptiness that stands behind many things, and this works on a social level, on
 individual level as well, okay? So today I want to say a few words about this,
 the big example that I want to bring is the Nazis, okay? They came as patriots of their nation,
 and there was a hope in many Germans, okay, that now is this spirit of
 Germany, this Geist. It's coming to its blooming, okay? Now they were calling them gods, okay, those
 Nazis, and
 many expectations, okay? That now they overthrew all those greedy capitalists who are just making
 money and just making people suffer, exploiting the masses. No, now these new guys are coming
 with ideology, with vision, with this breakthrough ideas of creating a new world, okay? So many
 people were possessed by these things, but it ended up very bad, okay? You know, you all know,
 okay? But maybe from 1933 till 1939, six years, people were amazed, most people around the globe,
 they were amazed at how prosperous the Germany becomes, the industry is developing, the science
 technology is developing, they have this strong patriotism which is uniting the nation, which
 means that they have this strong motivation that's moving the masses, the people, okay? So this
 should create new ideas, new philosophies, okay? Many solutions to the problems of humanity,
 et cetera, et cetera, but it ended up as what? As concentration camps, as machine of terror,
 machine of death that enslaved all the Europe and went to Russia and Ukraine and tried to
 enslave them also. And we know how bad it all ended and how many, maybe 100 million people
 died and how many more suffer from all these satanic ideology and processes that happened
 in Germany in those days. And we're still living in the aftermath of that, of what has happened,
 and this is not a good aftermath. We have not learned most of the lessons, okay, unfortunately.
 So we can say that the sooner you can notice this emptiness, the sooner you can
 stop it and you can avoid those traumatic casualties and sufferings that will follow soon
 after that. So it was a fake patriotism, it was a fake philosophy, fake religion, and basically
 all this fakeness, all these surrogates comes from the devil. It's all satanism and fighting against
 God. It's not just empty, okay. There is nothing that is left empty, okay. If you make it empty,
 the devil will come. So including those communists, okay, communists and Marxists that destroyed
 everything. This strive to root out, to destroy everything and build something new, it all comes
 from this idea of this emptiness. And we can include the reformation that also tried to destroy
 everything. And then they had, okay, until now no ascotism, no monasticism, no tradition, nothing.
 Only some very limited dogmas and a lot of proudness and a lot of blindness, okay,
 and that's why they divide, divide, divide. And both modernism was found on emptiness
 and as a result the post-modernism as post-post and, okay, where are we coming now? We are now
 coming to this, okay, development of this process. And on the level of generations we can also say
 that, okay, newer generations seem to be more shallow, don't want responsibility, always
 change their place, their work, their profession, their partner or spouse,
 always changing. And the Lord said, "Adulterous and sinful generation, how long will I endure you?"
 And that was 2,000 years ago and now it's much, much worse. So this adulterous nature, it comes
 from emptiness and this is Satanism. So this is why when even in the Old Testament the Jews they
 betrayed the faith. The Lord said, "You are worshipping Satan, Beelzebub or Baal or you name
 it, okay, there are different names for it. Any religion that doesn't receive God and Christ is
 Satanism. And so Satanism is not you worship Satan, you're right, okay, this is Satan, I worship him.
 No, you can take many different shapes and you don't even have to worship anything,
 okay, just worship money and that will be enough. Minister, serve, make money the core of your life,
 the purpose, money and all what it brings. Some people say, "No, I don't care about money,
 I just want what it gives me." Same thing, same thing, consumption, mammon, that's the only thing
 you care about. Or be it even a career, be it some vainglory, be it something else, it's an idol
 and every idol has a demon behind it and this makes you slave of the satan. So this is some
 form of Satanism, call it luciferanism. So many religions, okay, since I am speaking about
 religions, Buddhism rejects God. The first thing that they say when you talk to them, "Okay, there
 is no God and now we can talk about other things." So they strictly reject God, the God. And
 immediately this brings them to the conclusion that emptiness is the most important foundation
 of everything and this is not a coincidence because when you don't have God you have emptiness
 and when you have emptiness you have devil, you have Satanism immediately. So
 this is the nature and quality of many manifestations of Satanism in our life
 and on individual level, of course, I don't want to criticize anyone, okay, to laugh at anyone,
 but when people become shallow and possessed only by some earthly interests they become
 very shallow and very empty and this is also a form of Satanism, okay, conscious, unconscious,
 subconscious. This is a ministry to the devil and the society became more and more consumerist,
 especially after World War II. We think, okay, we won the war, now victory, everything is over,
 this Nazism is over, but everyone became consumerist across the globe, no matter,
 it's a capitalist, it's a socialist, socialist country, also eventually through materialism they
 also became worshipers of Satan through consumerism. Even worse than the capitalist countries.
 So we can feel some unrootedness of the new generation, say we have those millennials
 Z generation, alpha generation, we feel that as though they don't have some root, okay,
 they are different and this lack of root is one of the signs of this successful Satanism in our
 society and we should also say that this emptiness doesn't mean that it's really empty,
 there is nothing, it can be very creative, very productive. So I went to Japan many times and I
 see that you come to some hostel, you have, I don't know, 50 big men, I don't know, in their
 50s, 60s and they're all reading these comics, no books, only comics and they can spend all day
 reading those comics. Well, first of all, these comics is mass-produced stuff, it's not some,
 it's not from God, okay, it's not coming from, okay, to create something positive. If you look
 at it, it's demons all over and it's created in like a mass production and people love it,
 which means that they also have this emptiness in them, which is quite scary and it's just an
 example, of course, now it's everywhere in the world, it's not much better anywhere else.
 This is just an example and there are much more examples and music, you have this thing and you
 see it's loud, there's a different, if you come, so many different singers and so much, so it's not
 empty, but it is empty, okay, it's all about the same, it's so different, but it's all the same,
 okay, and there is this emptiness behind it. So, let us learn how to distinguish what is this,
 where is this emptiness, what it is, not to become victims of this pseudo-culture or pseudo-patriotism,
 okay, pseudo-something, pseudo-religion, because there is the religion, okay, the only religion
 which is union with our Lord Jesus Christ, true union, which comes through prayer and the Holy
 Communion, okay, you won't have emptiness if you have the Holy Communion, you receive the
 body and blood of Jesus Christ, the life will be in you, and of course, another, the last distinction
 that has to be made is this emptiness and the peace and quietness of ascetism that is
 in the Church, that the Holy Fathers are talking about, that brings us into the mystery of God,
 when we need to stop all the thoughts running, all our emotions from coming up, our desires,
 we have to gain this passionlessness, and then we can hear the Lord, we can talk to him and receive
 his revelation, and he can change our heart, and this is completely different, because it's those
 stream of those ideas and this stream of those, okay, imperatives, you go, you need to do this,
 you need to wash dishes, you need to run there, you need to, this is emptiness, futilism, okay,
 when you can run around all the day, but at the end it's nothing, in the eyes of the Lord,
 it's nothing, because you don't do it for him, you don't pray, okay, you don't sacrifice yourself,
 you do it all for yourself, driven by patience and heading towards hell, eventually, so that is
 the emptiness, okay, you can bring so much stuff with it, but it's still going to be emptiness,
 let us distinguish what is true emptiness, okay, what is real emptiness coming from satan, okay,
 which is satanism, okay, and where is the Spirit of God, where is the, this simplicity of heart,
 this, okay, this maybe naivety in some sense, pure heart, blessed are the pure heart, who are pure,
 it's not that they're empty, they're pure, they don't have any blemish, any garbage in their heart
 and they are blessed, may us have this purity of heart, may us avoid any danger coming from this
 emptiness in which this world lives and preserve ourselves ready for the ministry of the Lord and
 bringing the fruits that he is expecting from us and having the real mission from him and not the
 empty, futile, useless life, I mean, God bless, I mean.
