 Dear brothers and sisters, we look at the modern world and it seems that the Lord has
 departed from this world.
 We see that in the Old Testament the Jews were sinning, they were worshipping false
 gods, and then there was judgment of the Lord, calamities coming, and they were repenting
 and things got better.
 Even when they rejected Christ, soon Jerusalem was destroyed, the Temple was destroyed, all
 the Jews were dispersed, also this was the manifestation of the Lord's wrath upon the
 former people of God.
 And similar things happened later in the Church history when people were turning away.
 But recently it seems that there is no such correlation, that there is more and more evil
 in this world, and there is no clear education or retribution, better to say, coming from
 the Lord.
 Actually, we see in the Psalms that the evildoer or the wicked or ungodly, they will be punished
 badly, even in this life.
 For example, we look at Psalm 1 verse 4.
 The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away.
 Okay, Psalm 37, 10.
 For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be, Yea, shall thou, thou shalt look for
 his place and it shall not be there.
 And many other, okay, that the man of blood and wickedness will not live to the half of
 his days.
 And many other places in the Testament, we see that this tribulation is imminent, it's
 coming.
 And now we see those politicians who destroyed millions of people, for example, in Cambodia,
 in Vietnam, in Afghanistan, in many places, those politicians, they live for over a hundred
 years, and everywhere, both in the capitalist, in the socialist, in the communist, in all
 those countries.
 Most of those big butchers, those murderers, they live and nothing happens to them.
 And the whole world is going to some, I don't know, ungodly, crazy way of life, way of thinking.
 Just consider people in the past, like everyone, it was normal to understand that to live with
 somebody without marriage, this is adultery.
 But now, no, there is no adultery, there is no sin.
 Just do what you want, what you like with anyone you like.
 This is just a small example.
 There are many, many examples, many more examples of how the world is growing nuts these days,
 and nothing really happens.
 Yes, there are some floods, well, usually they happen in the countries which are not
 so pervert, usually they happen in some, I don't know, Southeast Asia, where there
 is still some concept of family, or South America, usually they don't happen in some
 countries which are now like the propagators of this Babylon, of this post-Christian, post-post-modern
 values, if you can call them, garbage values.
 Why does this happen, and why the Lord is not persecuting this, why he is not stopping
 this from happening?
 So that many people, they lose faith, and they say, the Lord abandoned this world, where
 is he?
 He is going, I don't know, I just went to some Western countries recently, and churches
 are empty, so you have exhibition rooms in the churches, and condominiums, and some clubs,
 and something else, but no people are willing to pray there.
 And it's like old churches, it's a historical church, but now it's completely refurbished
 inside, and the population in those towns is like 10 times more than it used to be,
 but still, you can't say, too many churches.
 The churches are the same number as they used to be 100 years ago, 10 times more people
 live here, but they don't need these churches, even those which are already there, already
 built for you, people don't need it.
 All of this tells us that the spiritual state of modern humanity has degraded greatly, and
 not many people are willing to follow Christ now, much worse than it used to be, it was
 always not too many, but now it seems to be really, really bad, and at the same time we
 have great revival of all kinds of sects, new age, yoga, Buddhism, neo-Buddhism, neo-Hinduism,
 all that kind of stuff, fetishism, paganism, and all kinds of astrology, and all kinds
 of garbage stuff, superstitions are now welcomed and propagated, what has happened, what is
 going on, and where is the Lord?
 Our question is where is the Lord in all this mess?
 Well, to understand this, or to try to understand this, we need to look at the times which were
 prophetical for what is happening now, and I'm talking about the period after the resurrection
 of Christ until the destruction of the Temple, destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem, the
 slaughter of maybe over a million Jews at that time, enslavement of the rest, was the
 prophecy, prophetical, for what will happen at the end of the world, and of course there
 are other prophetical times, for example the times of Noah, the flood, and also later when
 we had the plague, the Justinian plague especially, but let us talk today about the time of the
 apostles after the resurrection, we can see that the Jews, they've committed great sin,
 they were listening to the Lord for three years, and they rejected him, and they wanted
 a different Lord, which is Antichrist, and that's why they destroyed him, and even though
 they've committed such a great sin, and they had clear understanding of what they're doing,
 still it was given to them 40 years until the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple.
 Why is this so?
 The Holy Fathers, they tell us that the Lord, his long suffering, he was waiting for their
 repentance for 40 years, 40 long years of him not punishing them directly for what they
 have done, and during this 40 years, the longer the Lord was waiting, the harder they got
 in their hearts, the more steady, decisive they became in the evil that they were doing,
 so we can imagine that some of them did repent, and we know that after Peter's sermon in
 Jerusalem, there were two big sermons after which there were conversions of 5,000, 3,000,
 and that some of the leaders even, they converted, however, majority has not, and also the Lord
 allowed these Jews to persecute the church, because for the first 40 years, there was
 a great persecution, and it was coming mainly from the Jews, including those big, huge persecutions
 in Rome, with the narrow, with burning of thousands of Christians, they were instigated
 by the Jews.
 Of course, I'm not anti-Semitic, I'm not blaming all the Jews for this, of course, I'm talking
 about what was happening back then, and especially those Jews which were doing it, because there
 were Jews which were holy people, and who were eventually disciples of Christ, decay.
 Okay, so now, what is happening now?
 The Lord, He is watching everything that's going on, He knows every heart of every human
 soul, and He is giving this time for the evil to manifest itself to the utmost degree that
 it can be done.
 You want to do this, do this.
 So the times which we live now, they are the times which are of utmost importance in the
 eyes of the Lord, He wants the Christians, their faith to be crystallized and to become
 pure, like the gold which goes through the fire, it has to be purified by that fire,
 by all the temptations and hardships that we need to go through, all the seduction that
 is coming from the Antichrist, and all the delusions that are now coming through, all
 the sex, heresies and all that, ecumenism, all that garbage.
 We have to become stronger and firm in our faith, in our dedication to our Lord.
 And in going through this, reach the salvation.
 And at the same time, so that all these evil people, who are rejecting the Lord, will have
 no excuses, saying that, well, we didn't have enough time, we thought we were doing the
 right thing, maybe if we have more time, maybe we repent, or maybe we understand what's going
 on.
 No, He wants them to go to the end.
 There is this concept in the Bible, we can see quite often, that the measure of the Lord's
 long suffering, or better to say, the measure of the sin, can be fulfilled, okay?
 If it's not yet fulfilled, the Lord is waiting.
 But once it's fulfilled, that's when the trial comes, immediately.
 So we can say that the world has not yet reached that point of no return, of finish, okay?
 Destroy, delete, okay?
 So we are now coming to that point, this day is approaching, and we need to put our all
 effort into strengthening our faith, doing witness, witnessing our Lord.
 In the Revelation, in chapter 13, verse 10, and chapter 14, verse 12, we read, for example,
 14, 12, and here the patience, the endurance, and faith of the saints will be manifested.
 I'm putting it in my words.
 And the saints, who are the saints?
 Those who keep the commandments of God and faith in Jesus.
 If we want to be saints among those saints, we need to keep the commandments of the Lord
 on every day of our life, and our full trust and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.
 And this faith has to be the true faith.
 Which is based on the Holy Communion, on the union with the body and blood of Jesus Christ,
 which is rejected by all the heresies.
 May the Lord give us this faith, give us this gift of loving him, and avoiding all kinds
 of delusions, all kinds of temptations, all kinds of selfishness, and bringing victory
 to his glory.
 I mean, may the Lord be with all of you, Amen.
