 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about the vyathon, the topic which is not emphasized.
 And some people ask why I'm talking about all this apocalyptic, all this demonic stuff. Why not talk about Christ, gospel, love?
 Well, the closer we come to Christ, the more evident becomes the fake Christ.
 And the more obvious to us is the evil that is in this world.
 When we say, naively say, everything is good, just love people, just smile, okay? There is no devil, there is no vyathon.
 Well, that means that we don't know God. We don't really know who Christ is.
 Because Christ himself and the apostles and the holy fathers, for that matter, they spoke quite often about all the dangers that come in disguise of something nice.
 And the problem is not that we talk about the vyathon.
 The problem is that some people make it a phobia, they are afraid of the vyathon, that's the problem.
 But we are not afraid of any evil stuff. We're not afraid. We're afraid only of God and his punishment for sin.
 And everything else for us, for Christians is nothing. We have no fear.
 Well, the vyathon, this concept comes from the Old Testament. And mostly in the book of Job, in chapter 41, we have a description of the vyathon.
 And prior to that of Bechemoth. Bechemoth and the vyathon are closely related. And also in the vyathon we can find him in Psalms, in prophet Isaiah.
 But Job is most important because here we know much more about him from the book of Job.
 And the modern liberal interpretation is some rosy fairy tale. Oh, God is showing him Bechemoth, see this animal.
 And then he shows him crocodile, vyathon, look at this animal.
 And it's so nice, it's so, okay, some biology class. It's not about that.
 The book of Job gives us great insight into who the devil is, and not just the devil.
 Because vyathon is not exactly the devil, even though it's quite related.
 And all the holy fathers, they tell us that it's talking about, well, let's say, let's call this incarnation of the devil in this world.
 And it has this personalization, personification, that it's like one entity and it's acting.
 Well, you say, it's creation by the Lord. Well, we can say that the whole book of Job is coming from ancient times.
 Probably before Moses, no matter when the book is written, but what is happening, because we believe it's historical, this happens before Moses.
 And no matter whether the concept of vyathon comes from those days, or from the time, I mean the understanding, not the concept, the understanding of this concept comes from the time when it was recorded.
 This is not so important. But anyhow, the whole understanding of the devil in the Old Testament is not exactly the same as when the Lord Jesus Christ gave us the full understanding that he is the enemy.
 And there is no compromise between us and him, between God and him. There is nothing positive about the devil.
 He is the killer and destroyer of human souls and bodies. Well, souls in terms of corrupting them.
 We can see, yes, you can say that in the Old Testament it is not as negative about vyathon. However, everything is there.
 It is inspired by the Holy Spirit, so everything is there. So the Holy Fathers saw everything in the book of Job about vyathon pertaining to the devil as we know who he is.
 So, don't be fooled. Don't think, oh, it's a creature and they got, he is playing with this creature to achieve some goals in this world.
 No, this is actually Talmudic understanding. This is completely foreign to Christian tradition.
 Because in Judaism the vyathon is understood differently. Actually there are different interpretations within Judaism of the vyathon.
 But generally they tend to be more positive. Because in Talmudic Judaism there is no evil per se.
 Evil is just a flip-flop of good and both are good because they are useful. Which brings us to the Luciferian doctrine of dualism and monism.
 It's all one, but it's two sides of it, like yin and yang in Chinese. But that's a whole different topic. It's Luciferian ideas implying into Talmud, Kabbalah and many teachings of Judaism.
 We are talking about Christian and the Christian understanding is the true understanding. Don't be mistaken.
 And the true understanding of this, put it simple. Livia Fan is spiritual, this evil spirit, connected with humans who are controlled and manipulated and driven by devil.
 Connected with the social and technological systems and institutions in place which support this agenda of the devil in this world.
 I don't know if it's too complicated, but this is what it is. And it is one thing. And it can seem to be opposing. We have capitalism, socialism, liberal, conservative, we have this and that.
 Economic boom, economic recession, we have different forces, bull market, bear market, we have democratic government, we have authoritarian government, we have this, we have that.
 It seems to be that some opposing forces are behind it. But no, all of this is like a snake. Livia Fan is a snake, so it's always going back and forth.
 So this image, be it a crocodile or some other fish that was used to picture this concept, it doesn't really matter.
 Some holy fathers, they say Behemoth, Livia Fan, and also we see a bird, also all these three things are different facets of Livia Fan, basically.
 The Behemoth, with these strong steps going and just breaking everything, is like a sin, this brutal force of sin destroying human souls and everything is just going.
 It's brutal, it's clumsy, it's crazy, it just goes and does what it wants to do. That's one facet of this Livia Fan.
 Another facet is this treacherous nature of always deceiving, going back and forth, complying, it means something, it goes like this, it's trying to hide itself in the grass.
 Never straight, never outspoken, you never know what it is.
 So this is why we have, for example, in the Soviet times, those who were the fervent supporters of socialism, overnight they became so-called Democrats and market economy and all that stuff.
 Businessmen, just overnight. They flip and flop like that.
 And same with the Nazis, with anything, it's conformism.
 And the bird is that all the ideas are very superficial, the ideas that Livia Fan is using, or some spiritual, for example, music of Livia Fan, it's like nothing.
 It has no content. So many things that he is using, they are very light and without something substantial.
 This is by the birds, this is portrayed by the image of the birds. This is not coming from me, it's coming from the Holy Fathers, this interpretation.
 Also, they are explaining the skin of Livia Fan, or the scales, like fish has these scales.
 It can be these sinners, these blind folk, the masses, who just go and do whatever, they are manipulated, they are told to do war, they do war, they are told to go shopping, they go shopping.
 They are told to do sin, they sin. Or it's in the bureaucracy, the whole apparatus, everybody does this, everybody just does this, this, this.
 This blind force is the skin, and it's very hard to penetrate.
 It seems to be so tight that even air cannot penetrate in the midst of those scales.
 So it can seem sometimes that the people are so united in their pursuit of something, in their blindness, in their stupidity, in their sinning, that you cannot do much, you cannot do anything about it.
 And the head of this Livia Fan is the ideologists, those who are bringing this flock in the direction that they want to.
 So there are some so-called behind the scenes, those who are leading the puppets, and they of course are connected with the devil through occultism, through all kinds of magic, through Kabbalah, through all those things.
 And also of course there is technology, and there are social and economic tools in place which are there to make sure that everything is running in the right direction, where they want it to go.
 So having said all of this, you don't think that Livia Fan is far away, it's economies, those people who are brainwashing someone, those technocrats or some other tyrants, authoritarian governments, no, it's actually not that far.
 The Livia Fan sometimes portrayed as a Python which is circling around a city, and it makes this city sort of in a state, and everything is going well.
 Basically, the so-called world of comfort. Why we don't have missionaries, so few missionaries, why not so many people are willing to become priests, or to do social service, to do something for Christ?
 Because this breaks the comfortable life, this comfortable life that you know, you make money just enough for your needs, for what you want, everything is running, you have this, you have that, you know only those people who you like, other people you keep far away.
 You have this world, you create this world which is safe and you understand it and it's comfortable, this is Livia Fan.
 This is Livia Fan. It's keeping, it's the mamon. The Lord told us about the mamon, about the prince of this world, this is all about Livia Fan.
 And also, I don't think it's too far away. Actually, every addiction, every habit, especially bad habit, every weakness that we have is giving, it's like we surrender to Livia Fan.
 Or we embrace, we take Livia Fan inside us and it's living in us, through concepts, through weaknesses, through some passions that we have. He is in us, not far away.
 This is the big problem. Now with the mass society, it became much worse. Livia Fan in the ancient time is one thing, in the middle ages it's another shape.
 It's the same Livia Fan, but it takes different shape and form. In Catholicism, it's another shape. In Protestantism, it's another shape. In modern times, industrial revolution brings a new level of Livia Fan.
 Now we have this digital and AI revolution against another level of Livia Fan, of this control of everyone. Now we have this, even with this distance, distance learning, distance job, people become even more closed in their cell, so that Livia Fan can eat you.
 We also see in the Revelation, the book of Revelation, which tells us about two beasts. In chapter 13, there is a beast coming from the water and there is a beast coming from the ground, from the earth.
 Basically, the beast from the water is also related to Livia Fan. It's also some manifestation, let's say, of Livia Fan, this beast from the water, with seven heads.
 Actually, the seven heads we have in ancient times have seven heads. There is no crocodile with seven heads. But Livia Fan is portrayed like that.
 We can see many things in the book of Job, that it's so hot that this water is boiling. What crocodile makes that? Or that any stone or any dagger cannot do anything to him?
 And at the end, it also says that he is king of all the children of pride. Who is the king of those who are pride? The devil himself.
 Because he was proud. He fell because of proudness. He felt that he is like God. He wants to have power, be king, like God himself. His proudness. And so all those who are proud, they become slaves and ministers of Livia Fan.
 So, let us be aware of these things. The more we love pride, the more we want to get rid of Livia Fan.
 The more we see Livia Fan in ourselves, in this world, all around us, and we hate it and we want to get rid of it.
 We want to be free of this Livia Fan, no matter whether it's coming through technology or through sinful life or through some wrong concepts, ideology.
 We want to be free from Livia Fan. We want to overthrow dragon. And Christ gives us everything necessary to do that.
 So there is nothing to be afraid of. As soon as we live with Christ, we surrender ourselves to Christ, we overthrow, we trample Livia Fan.
 May the Lord give us this victory and keep us safe from all this evil I mean. God bless.
