 Dear brothers and sisters, we have just celebrated the raising the exaltation of the Holy Cross and during these holy days of celebrating this feast,
 I want to share with you some thoughts about fear, about the syndrome of fear or a gene of fear that is implanted into most people, into everyone actually.
 And the Cross is for us the source of rejuvenation, restoration, the source of resurrection eventually.
 And we draw all the power that we need to change from the power coming out of the Holy Cross.
 Some people when they believe, when they find faith in Jesus Christ, they change dramatically.
 The words of Christ have immense impact.
 Sometimes they change in the right way, sometimes in the wrong way, there is false, fake guidance and they receive some false direction, instruction,
 so they harm themselves and harm others.
 Some people they don't change much, just believe, some people sort of believe from their childhood, so what, I believe in Jesus Christ but I live as everybody else.
 This is another problem and also there is a common problem that after some time, maybe several, three, four years,
 even those who changed a lot in the beginning, they go back to old life and sometimes become even worse than they used to be,
 because now they have new tools for bigger sins.
 So all these things do happen and one of the reasons for the problems that exist is that we don't see our fears.
 We don't understand that we fear everything but God himself.
 And today I don't want to go deeply into some psychological analysis or counseling, how to overcome different sins and so forth,
 but I just want to bring up this problem and to think together with you about what kind of fears creep into our subconscious even.
 And stick to our character, become part of us throughout our whole life and become even worse with time, with some new experiences.
 Different generations have different fears, different countries have different fears, whether this country used to be a colony has an immense impact on the mentality of the people who live there.
 I've just been to Papua New Guinea and it's a great impact. People still have a slave mentality.
 So we need to know that we are in a great extent the products of our families, of our societies, our ethnic groups, etc.
 And we can say that, for example, in the totalitarian governments, all the people who have more experience with those governments, they would be afraid of government.
 They would be afraid of police, because police is not there to protect people, it's there to harm people, to create problems, to be difficult.
 And in the democratic, so-called democratic countries, western countries, now we also see fading off of democracies and basic human freedoms.
 And people are immensely afraid of different types of taboos, to speak, to criticize, to say what you think.
 Because this might be considered impolite or un-proper for some minorities, ethnic groups, or something else.
 It could be against the main framework, what is good, what is bad.
 It's all imposed on the people and they would be afraid of speaking outspokenly, to call sodomites sodomites, to say that this is against the Bible, or to say things like "the man is the head of the family".
 They would be saying "oh, we should be afraid, maybe somebody will misinterpret" or something else.
 And even in communication, it becomes more and more fake between people.
 And this fakeness is coming from fear. And this fear is not a fear to harm someone.
 It's more a fear of maybe losing this opportunity, maybe he could harm me in some way, if I say something that he doesn't like, she doesn't like.
 Or there will be something else. So we have to be playing this game and be pleasing to someone. We are afraid of losing this.
 Some people who are in the media or have some circle of people who listen to them, who trust them, they would be afraid of losing this fame, losing this social status.
 So if there is something like some propaganda that everybody has to say, be it about medical things, you know what I'm talking about, be it about political things, if it's not in the main trend, they will go, they will comply, they will conform to this main trend.
 Confirmism is this great, great companion of fear. And of course, people have economic fears. We all have.
 We're afraid of losing our job. We're afraid of losing the comfort that we have. Everybody is afraid of losing their health.
 Almost everybody is afraid of talking to people over the phone. More and more, we have this safety feeling that we are right, but when somebody calls, we lose, we don't know what to say. It's a shock.
 So, it becomes all-encompassing. There's all kinds of different fears. How many people are now sociopaths? Sociopaths, you're afraid of people. You run away from people.
 The Lord, He said that you need to be cautious of people. Be wise. Don't be afraid of them, but be wise because you open too much and they will bring you to trials and synagogues and they will be beating you.
 So, this is very different. A Christian would have no fear. And actually, you can say to what extent someone is a Christian by looking at what kind of fears he or she has.
 And now we see that throughout those church hierarchies, bureaucracies, everybody is afraid to lose their position. And that's why they would say whatever, just to avoid any kind of criticism.
 What are you doing? You're not supposed to say that. So, even when pastors and bishops, they are afraid of saying what they think and thinking freely, then Seneca said that a free man is the one who thinks whatever he wants and can say whatever he thinks.
 And we are now losing this big time. And the foundation for this fearlessness for a Christian is fear of God.
 It's not some self arrogance. I have nothing to be afraid of. I'm so brave. I'm a winner. I'm a superman. I'm a hero. What am I afraid of? No, it's the opposite actually. It's the fear of God because we're afraid to say something that is unpleasing to Him.
 To mock someone. To accuse someone. To gossip about something. We're afraid of many things because it would harm our relationship with Christ.
 But we're not afraid of anything and any external persecution, losing jobs, losing everything. We're not afraid of that.
 It doesn't mean that we don't care about work, about our relatives, but this is all subject to our fear of the Lord. It's not the other way around as normally it is, usually it is for most of us.
 There is another phenomenon that happens that might look like this fearlessness. What I'm talking about is sin.
 Now people live with other people and actually go and find different partners every so often. Seems to be all. They don't have any fear.
 Or women have very free communication with many different men and they have nothing to be afraid of and have many friends and have relationships with different men.
 So they are so brave? Or what is it? Or we have those wars where people kill each other like massively. Is this because they're brave, they don't have fear?
 Or those revolutionaries or rioters, they riot all the time. Is this because they don't have fear? Well, sometimes rioters, yes.
 But when we were talking about sin, one of the most common now is that people are not afraid to speak back to their parents or to say rude words to their parents or to others.
 Is this a lack of fear? No. This is demonic revolution, revolt against the law of God. And when there is such a revolt, there can be no fear of God.
 People are not afraid of God when they go against him. So don't make a mistake. It's not fearlessness, it's another type of fear.
 This is a fear of... This is a syndrome of lack of some kind of self-esteem. It can have different roots. Some people do these sinful things because of some passion, they love money.
 So they don't be afraid. They go naked with other people, camera, making films. Is this lack of fear? No, it's not lack of fear.
 This is greed for either money or some carnal desires or something else. And that is even bigger enslavement. They are enslaved by sin and they cannot live without this sin.
 Everybody who does sin is a slave of sin by Apostle Paul. So all of those things which are ugly and which are lawless, they are against the law of God.
 They have nothing to do with the fear of God. They are also some other form of fear. So there are different types of fear. And when it seems to be that people are brave and they're outspoken and they're something else, rude,
 they're a very strong personality. No, it's all hacked. It's all broken personality. It's all sick.
 Everything that is without Christ, without God is sick and ugly and brings death and enslavement.
 So let us learn about ourselves. What kind of fears do we have? What are these internal demons that we have that we have not overcame?
 We're afraid of the future. What will happen tomorrow? Are we always reading the news? Because we think something is going to happen. Did I do the right measures to avoid that? Are we obsessed about something? That's where our fears would be.
 Or people always look at their cell phone. Oh, somebody wrote something. Something is happening in the social media. This is another fear. This is another fear, another psychological sickness that we develop.
 Wherever there is addiction, wherever there is some kind of lack of peace. There is no peace from above. There is no God in our heart.
 When we've discovered these things, immediately we go and pray. We read the Holy Scripture. We repent and go to church and receive the Holy Communion.
 There is some alienation, some separation from Christ. Some people are afraid for their relatives, that something is going to happen to them. Some people are afraid that their wife is going to leave them.
 There are all kinds of different fears. And all of those show that we lack Christ. We don't have the fear of God. May the Lord help us, give us wisdom, give us this fearlessness against everything that is in this world.
 And true trust relies upon him. And fear of God, every time, everywhere. Through the Holy Cross. Amen. God bless.
