 Dear brothers and sisters, recently one subscriber asked me what is the kingdom of heaven, and I understood the importance of this question.
 Even though it may seem that, well, it's self-evident for every Christian, it's something we don't talk about, because everybody knows the kingdom of heaven, of course, but in reality we don't really know.
 And even most of pastors and bishops, they would have difficulty saying something particularly about the kingdom of heaven, and very often they would even say wrong things about the kingdom of heaven.
 Which is so sad, because if we don't know where we're going, if we don't really understand the final goal, first we lose motivation to go there, and the second we may easily receive fake ideas.
 Because there are actually thousands of different surrogates of heaven that exist, and they are easier to understand, and very often people go for it.
 For example, in the Orthodox world, all of a sudden people in Russia, many other countries, they were given the idea of a bright communist future as the kingdom of heaven, instead of the kingdom of heaven, which nobody knows where and when.
 Here you have this bright future, you have progress, you have industry, you have this happy society, and people they received, most people, they believed in that.
 Why? Because they were not taught well enough about the kingdom of heaven. Partly it's a mistake of the pastors, and partly it's because people were not eager enough.
 And of course this happened in the West also, because even from the time of Catholicism, from the breakup of the Roman church and then later Protestants, there was already great misunderstanding about salvation and the kingdom of heaven.
 Because actually salvation and the kingdom of heaven are related directly. When we talk about salvation, we talk about the kingdom of heaven.
 So what questions arise when we raise this question, when we raise this topic?
 And it's so important to raise it because the apostles, they were preaching the kingdom of heaven. The Lord himself, his sermon was about repentance and that the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
 What does it mean at hand? And then he said, where is the kingdom of heaven? It's inside, it's in your hearts. What does it mean? Why should we even bother if it's already in our heart?
 Many questions arise. First of all, there is a big mistake when we say that the kingdom of heaven is something that will be decided after I die.
 Now, yes, it's somewhere there, the saints are there, but for me, well, I should live a good life and then I have a hope, then there will be a judgment and after this judgment, I either go to heaven or go to hell.
 This is the basic understanding, which is partly true. Partly true is false. Why is it partly true?
 Because for the Bible and the language of the Bible, it has its own conception about time. For the Bible, the future already exists in the present.
 And the past also exists in the present through memory. This is why we have commemoration. And we see that, for example, in the divine liturgy, which we serve every Sunday, sometimes every day in some churches,
 there is a prayer by the priest that he says, we commemorate, we remember now everything from creation, and then he lists, and we remember the kingdom of the future which thou has granted to us.
 I mean, how confusing that is. Is it the future kingdom, but you granted it to us already in the past, and we remember about it, remember, recall this, now during this liturgy.
 I mean, this is so confusing. Well, we need a liturgical mindset and heart. This is what is happening with us. We transform our everything, our mentality, our perception.
 We became children of heavens, with the wisdom of the heavens, with the logic. And this reality actually of the kingdom of heavens has to happen in the divine liturgy and in every participant of this liturgy.
 And the church becomes already a part or projection of the kingdom of heaven on this earth. So it's the reality of its own or within this world.
 This is why the biggest sickness of church is worthiness, when it becomes not like the kingdom of heaven, but governed by earthly logic and agenda and values.
 So this is a problem both for the individual Christians and for the parish or local church or even the church overall. This could happen.
 So let us think about this. And what does it mean that the kingdom of heaven is inside you?
 Well, there is a misunderstanding that it's already in me. It's like Buddhism or Taoism, even more like Taoism or pantheism. God is everywhere. God is in me. I am God.
 All this nonsense. But the thing is that the kingdom of heaven is inside you. It means that this is the goal.
 We already can find, once we believe in Jesus Christ, once we have this meeting with him in some mysterious part of our heart, we already have some intuition about the kingdom of heaven.
 And we have this intuition and in some way we already have the kingdom of heaven in us.
 Or at least a possibility or at least a memory about that experience, which we lost maybe because of sinning or something else. But we are not already completely alien, completely deprived from this reality.
 So, this is often, we can see in the Holy Bible, when for example, Apostle Paul, he's saying, "Don't you know that your bodies are vessels of the kingdom of the Holy Spirit?"
 Well, if they would already be vessels and carrying the Holy Spirit, they would know about it, wouldn't they? He would not need to ask. But he's asking, "Don't you know that this is this?"
 This means this is supposed to be like that and you are sort of on this path. But of course, there is a way for you to go. You need to make sure you don't break this vessel.
 And now that you know that you are supposed to be vessels, you can really become vessels more and more.
 So, this is the language of the Bible. It's different than our normal logic, but we can understand it.
 And also, in the Creed, we pray, "I expect the resurrection of the dead and the age of the world to come." So, here we say about future. We believe, we expect this age of the world to come, this coming future kingdom.
 So, this is talking about this future. Apostle Paul is also telling us that now we can see as though through a blurry glass. It's not transparent.
 So, we can see something about this mystery, but it's not directly open and visible to us. But later, we will see face to face without any obstruction.
 But already, we have some appreciation, we have some feeling, we know what it feels like, what it looks like.
 And he also tells us that never any human has any imagination or appreciation of what has the Lord prepared for those who love Him.
 So, do we have this appreciation or we don't have this appreciation?
 So, you know, it may get confusing. We need to look at what the Holy Father tells us about it.
 And most importantly, we need to have really this experience, which we gain in the divine literature mainly.
 So, I think by now we have some solution. In the Church, in the Divine Liturgy, we are like in the front yard of the Kingdom of Heaven.
 And it's the same building. We will eventually get into the inner part of this palace. But we know what this palace is like because we already have life in the front yard.
 So, let us have this faith and get stronger, stronger in our belongingness to this reality.
 What else? Another important part that we need to think about is what is it like?
 Because some people say, "Well, you die, you go either to heaven or you go to hell." And that's it.
 But it's not that simple. The post of Paul is telling us that we expect the new heavens and new earth.
 What does that mean? If it's the Kingdom of Heaven, it's in heaven, right? It's somewhere with the angels in the clouds.
 Why is he talking about the new heaven and new earth? Well, this is a mystery, of course.
 But we can see that there are two judgments, two trials that a person will go through.
 Everyone will go through these judgments unless a Christian loves Christ so much that he is already united.
 He is deified. He already has transformed his heart and his life and everything so much that he becomes one with Christ by the end of his earthly life.
 Such people are so few, even among the greatest ascetics and saints. But it's possible, it's quite possible for every one of us with the Lord's grace.
 But very few people have the courage and this decisiveness to follow Christ to the end. To completely give over himself, destroy the old self in themselves and to have such a great love.
 These people whom I've just mentioned, they will not receive this first trial when they die. We call it personal judgment.
 The book of Revelation tells us that they will go from life to life. They will not be subject to any trial.
 But as I said, these are so few great champions of the faith and we were dreaming, we were hoping and we need to exert every possible energy to gain, to become like that.
 Others, most of Christians, Orthodox Christians I'm talking about, are so-so Christians and they will have to go through this first trial and all people will go through this first trial, all other people.
 And as an outcome, they either go to heaven or go to hell. And they will be expecting, they will go but still, they will be expecting the final dread, awesome judgment of Christ, which will happen at the end of the world.
 So this first judgment is not final yet. So we need to wait, we will need to wait till the last day of the second glorious coming of Christ, the last day of the world.
 And upon that time, we will resurrect. Paul is telling us, we will gain our bodies, resurrected bodies. They will be different from, they will be the same bodies but they will have some different qualities.
 And in some mysterious way, people will not be able to sin anymore. And there will be this judgment and to those who resurrect in life and who are approved by the Lord, they will gain the new heavens and new earth.
 What it will be like, how we will be living there, we don't know. We don't know the details. We know that this will happen. This is part of our faith but we don't know exactly what are we going to do there.
 And of course, we will glorify God, we will be with Him, it will be a joyful union. But details, how it's going to be like, we don't know.
 And others, of course, they will receive this eternal condemnation, like the Antichrist and everybody who chose sin and who alienated themselves from God and His kingdom.
 So, let us think deeply about these things. Let us pray that the Lord can make us worthy to pass both judgments or even better so, to go from life to life.
 To bring this kingdom of heaven into our hearts, to preserve it in our hearts through holy life, through praying, through repentance, and to be witnesses of this reality to people around us.
 May the Lord give us to understand this kingdom in how it is, not having some fantasies, some perverted ideas, but truly to feel it as a reality that it becomes part of us, becomes a seed that grows as a tree and brings fruit.
 And be vigilant. Be vigilant because there are so many deceptions, there are so many tricks by the devil who is trying to pull us all away.
 And he will succeed in pulling away majority of humanity into some fake kingdom of heaven that will be bringing on this world through some riches, comfort, and other deceptions, virtual reality, and whatnot.
 Longevity and whatnot. Let us remember about these dangers and learn how to follow Christ, how to carry His cross.
 Because that fake kingdom will not have the cross, will not have repentance, will not have self-sacrifice, it will be in antagonism, in enmity to God and His kingdom.
 May the Lord help us make the right decision and to stand against every attack of the evil one.
 Amen.
 God bless everyone.
