 Dear brothers and sisters, I was asked to comment about what is happening now in the Middle East, what began on October 7th, and of course I'm not going to talk about just politics.
 We are very materialistic, and this is a sign of apostasy, that we care about what's in the news, what threat happens to economics, to immigration, and stuff like that.
 But all of that is just a consequence of some more important spiritual events that are going on, as people reject Christ, reject God, reject everything divine.
 This world loses its value, and eventually people will choose Savior, which will give them material selection.
 And the question is, this fake Messiah, this Antichrist, he's coming, is it related to what is happening, what has just begun in the Middle East, and how is it going to develop?
 Just some ideas, I'm not going to make too much forecasts, but I can share my thoughts.
 First of all, this may not be the final project and the final coming of the Antichrist. This may be one of rehearsals, one of attempts to bring this key to power.
 And I'm saying this because for the people who want Antichrist to come, and who have tremendous resources, to them the Holy Land, Israel, is the most important part.
 And as for the Lord, he said, the stone of stumbling, the stumbling stone, and the stone became Christ, and whoever didn't believe in Christ chose not to, he fell off.
 And salvation means obtaining the stone and not falling. In the same way, Jerusalem and the Third Temple, this mountain of temple, for those who want to bring this fake Messiah, for them this is the stone.
 So for them, it's everything around this topic, the Third Temple and coming of this Savior, they think that's going to be Messiah, which of course we know is going to be the Antichrist.
 And we also know from the Holy Fathers, their interpretation of the apocalypse, that Jerusalem is going to become the capital of this world kingdom of Antichrist.
 So they also tell us that it's going to be all about Jerusalem. Knowing this, we can say that if what happened, what began a few days ago, October 7th, if this is going to grow into the world event, you know what I mean, not just Middle East, not just Iran, but the whole world.
 And we see this militarization going on everywhere. We have it here in Taiwan, we have it in France, in Europe, we have it everywhere.
 If everybody or almost everybody is going to be pulled into this big event, I don't want to say this word, as a result, as an outcome of what is happening now in the Middle East, that means that this is one of the biggest attempts, maybe the biggest up to now attempt to bring the fake Messiah.
 And it may be the final one, or it may be only one big rehearsal.
 Of course, don't believe the news, what they tell you. That some crazy guys, they decided to get on those, how they call them, paroplanes or whatnot, and they went to kill, to torture.
 This is a game, we have to know that there are people and there are forces behind this.
 We can say that the spirit of Antichrist is behind this breakup that happened. And it will unfold according to some plan, give or take. But if they decided to go for this, they must have some plan.
 And I can tell you more, I can tell you that if they have this plan to begin the big one, the world one, they also have a plan of how to save it.
 And this plan of saving the world would involve bringing some savior. And most likely they already have this candidate for savior, most likely.
 But there is another big question. The bringing of such a figure to world power, it doesn't involve just this political, economical enthronement that they will bring and make him this world leader.
 It's not that simple. The thing is that, and they understand that, that they first need to implant into the minds of all the people in this world love for a figure like that, and for the order of the world that he will establish.
 So this is not just a task of just forcing people to accept him as the world leader. No. The task is that people would be craving and screaming for and welcoming such savior to come, and the order that he will bring to this world.
 This is a more difficult task than just using force, military, bombs and whatnot to force everybody, except this tyranny, this dictatorship.
 No, they don't want it to look like dictatorship. So what we can say is that, first of all, I believe that this is a long-term story. That it's going to last in this destabilization, going to get worse and worse at least until elections in the US.
 At least for one year. Because they might be bringing the salvation beginning from that new government in the US. This is a game. This is a game. But people have to believe that it's true.
 This is just a hypothesis. I'm not saying that this is what's going to happen. But in case that this is a big war and they want it to be a world scale, this is what's going to happen. It's going to get worse and worse at least until that day.
 And later we'll see. And what's more important is this propaganda and information and brainwash that will go hand in hand with the military component.
 We will have this military component getting bigger and bigger and worse and worse. But they must have this propaganda and brainwash component running at the same time. Otherwise it will not succeed.
 But they know, they've learned for the last 20 centuries what's involved. And what they also understand is that this has a mystical component to it. It's not something that they can completely plan and project and make it happen.
 They understand, and this is true, that such a figure, if this be him, the Antichrist, has to be allowed by God to come and rule this world.
 This has to be allowed by God if the Lord can see that it's time. The people are so far away. They don't want anything divine.
 They are completely immersed in their sins and passions, and so lowly, so earthly, so perverted, that now it's time.
 It's time that, okay, let's just finish all of this. They don't want me, let them have this guy. And if this comes, this permission has to come from the Lord, these guys that are trying to bring him to power, they cannot control this process.
 But they're not going to wait. They're not going to just sit there and wait. Their logic is to exert as much effort as they can to try to bring him to power.
 To hopefully prepare everything possible. That his mindset, the magic that he's going to use, will be already implanted in the people.
 Leviathan will be living in each and every one. This they can try to make, to brainwash people so much that all of them are already instruments of the devil, devil-possessed.
 And then it will be logical. These two things come together. So let us see what happens. Let us have no fear, but let us be mindful and watchful. Not for political agenda, who is bombing whom, and stuff like that.
 The more important is this very slight and very persuasive sneaky way of capturing your conscience, of making you one of the slaves, one of the people who will welcome this new order.
 And this is what they're making. And most of the people around us are already like this. If you look around, you will see that most people are already hacked spiritually and mentally and ideologically.
 And we'll see what happens. So please don't take parts. I'm on this side, I'm on that side. Who wants to do this? Oh, this is a goal of Israel. No, this is China. Or some other leaders. Or this is some UK special forces. No, that's Russia.
 This is all brainwash. Most of the stuff, 99% that you see in the news is brainwash. These categories are outdated. So please don't believe what you read, what you see. Don't take sides.
 Our side is Jesus Christ. We take his side. We love all the people. We see that those people who are now killing each other, they're brainwashed, both. All the sides involved. Whoever gets into that conflict, he is a victim of the Leviathan.
 So let us pray. Let us have peace and strong faith and trust in our Lord. Let us grow in a spiritual way that we are not attached to this world, to the values, to the worries of this world.
 That our worries are with the Lord. Our hope, our trust is in him and with him. And only in this way we will be able to avoid all this deception of the Antichrist and of the devil. Amen.
 May the Lord be with every one of you. Please. The minimum thing that we have to do is to stay alive. Stay alive. Avoid any harm to your health, to your mental state.
 And the task which is the task is our spiritual growth in our Lord and Savior, the true Messiah, Jesus Christ. Amen. God bless.
