 Dear brothers and sisters, in the past I recorded several videos about ecumenism and why is this heresy which basically melts all religions together to create a world religion of Antichrist.
 When people don't care about what they believe, practically they don't care.
 Then, of course, they can unite to build the Babylon. We call this union from below.
 When they don't care about faith, they disregard all the teaching of the Church, the spiritual life of the Church, where we clearly see that we believe in one fully Catholic and apostolic Church.
 But they disregard all of that. Why? Because of the love of this world, because not loving the Lord, not caring how to get there.
 If they would care, they would know that there are harmful ways of worshiping, of some spiritual exercise.
 But they don't care, so they say, "Oh, it's all fine, it's all fine, it's one God, so don't care how you believe what you believe."
 But today I don't want to say about that. This is just a brief introduction. Today I want to say about the reaction to this event, to this ecumenism.
 Well, the reaction is also not healthy. Of course, there are people who don't fall into this other extreme.
 The other extreme is radicalism or fundamentalism. It is filled with anger, with some accusation, always accusing someone else, not starting with repentance, not starting with changing your own self, following Christ, no humbleness.
 But it's the opposite. And the devil is catching those people into this extreme, so that they can also become blinded and they can become a tool for him.
 I respect the basic spirit behind this movement. The basic idea behind this movement is that we don't want to become this melting pot of religions.
 We don't want to lose who we are. We don't want to lose the church, the orthodoxy. We want to stand even when we're ready to die for the true faith.
 So the motivation is good, but every good thing you can spoil it. So this is bringing this very distorted, very angry and very perverted type of Christianity that we can call radicalism.
 And recently with these new wars that are happening, the recent war in Israel, this movement came out and we can see how harmful it is.
 And quite many people follow it. Just now on YouTube, if you search, you'll find a lot of videos like that.
 Today I want to say a few things about the errors, the basic mistakes that they make.
 One of the basic mistakes is that they embrace what they criticize. They criticize that Talmudic and Kabbalistic ideas enter into Christianity and it gets perverted.
 But they themselves embrace such ideas. For example, in Russia, the biggest Orthodox church among the 15 local churches, they would say "If you're born in Russia, you're Orthodox. This makes you chosen. This makes you special."
 This is nonsense. This is a heresy, because it's not that you're Russian or you're Serbian or you're Greek that makes you the child of Christ, that makes you a new Israel.
 Is your following Christ, your union with Christ, no matter which nation you are, where you're born, doesn't matter. If you're humble, if you're praying, if you're receiving the Holy Communion, then you are part of the church and you are chosen.
 And this doesn't mean that you are better than others. This is another thing. Yes, the new Israel are the chosen people, but they are not chosen in that narrow-minded, fascist mindset.
 We are, above all, we have better blood. We are something special. We deserve something because we are something. This all brings to Nazism, fascism, this Elitarian point of view.
 We are the elite, something like that. So, they are fighting against these Elitarian ecumenists, but they themselves fall into the same trap.
 Another mistake, which is also Talmudistic in nature, is that they will say, "Well, this land now in Israel, this is a holy land for all the Christians. This is for all the Orthodox. These are holy places.
 This is our war. What begins now in the Middle East is our war." No, guys. Yes, we say that there are places which are holy, but all of this is very conditional.
 It's very conditional. It's not the same as that contrast that they have in the Muslims, in the Jewish world.
 For us, a holy land is still blessed by some events which occurred there in the past. However, we don't say that it has some absolute value that it's linking us to God in some way.
 This is paganism, or this is maybe Old Testament times, but now the Lord comes to everyone, and wherever he is the Lord, he is blessing you, he is blessing this church here.
 This becomes holy because it's dedicated to him, so there are so many places where saints lived. They didn't need to go to Jerusalem to become holy or to touch some stones or something else.
 No, and the holy saint, Saint Servim, he said, "Here, where you are in this forest, it can be for you. Jerusalem, Rome, Constantinople, all the holy places is all here, as long as you are with the Lord."
 This happened with Christ, where he says that from now on you will not worship in this temple and in that temple. You will worship everywhere, in truth and spirit, because such worshippers the Lord is seeking.
 So, we should not get into this pagan idea which will draw us inside that conflict, and it's not our war. We should not be drawn into that war.
 So, this is another big mistake. Another mistake that they make is that, for example, they would say, if you live a righteous life, if you follow Christ, if you repent, if you become a good Christian, then all the problems will be solved.
 For example, now Russia, or some other country, Bulgaria, Romania, I'm just talking about Russia because it's big, they will say, now it's taken by oligarchs, now it's controlled by the Jews, or it's occupied by the Chinese, the Siberia, we're losing everything, we've lost the country.
 Why? Because we're sinners. Now everybody repents, follows Christ, and we will gain everything back. It will be our big, nice country, and everything else will prosper.
 Well, this is a Harris, because Christ never promised to his disciples, if you follow me, you will get prosperity, or you will have some, I don't know, good health, or something else. He never said things like that, that you will have earthly goodies, because you will be big.
 This is the anti-Christian idea, this is the Talmudic idea that the blessing comes in terms of material, prosperity, longevity, it's a complicated matter, it's not that simple.
 But generally saying, there is no direct link. So we see how these people, they get into very wrong ideas, marked by paganism, Talmudism, and hatred, and accusation, accusing everybody, but not themselves.
 And of course it brings about the eudophobia, all the bad things in the world are blamed on Jews, that they control the whole world, and stuff like that.
 Well, I mean, this is another big topic, but generally we can say that there are millions of just regular people who are Jewish by nation, some by religion.
 They are just not much different than any other nation in that sense, millions of them.
 If you have some groups which either have some wrong teaching, or they have some super influence, or something else, this is another topic.
 But it's not, it's like, I don't know how many people, but it's not the Jews as a whole.
 So this is another big area, because just regular Jews, this is another topic, every nation has something special about it.
 And we can talk about Jewish nation as another topic, and whether it's a nation or it's a religion, it's another topic.
 So I don't want to go into it right now, but it's wrong to blame everything just on Jews and say, okay, it's all problems because of Jews.
 They are the root problem of everything, which is completely crazy, and we know that Hitler and all those Nazi guys are as far away from Christianity as anything else.
 So let us not slip into such traps.
 However, people without education, without spiritual life, without love, a Christian who doesn't have love is not a Christian.
 You're supposed to love everyone, and then you don't like some people or some nations or something else.
 We can disagree with some religious dogmaths, which are wrong, but we never blame people for that. We blame demons and we blame the sin, the wrong philosophies.
 But we don't say these people are bad. No, we never say that. People are all good.
 They are created by God, but sometimes they do bad things, but we separate. So this is a problem.
 And there are other errors, mistakes that they make, tons of them.
 So, overall, today I want to conclude that if we want to be good Christians, it should not be a result of just reaction to some bad phenomenon.
 Following Christ is not reaction against something. So when Jesus came and he called his disciples, he didn't say, "Okay, you see how bad are those Romans, so you need to follow me."
 He never said that. And he never even said that, "You see how bad are those scribes and Pharisees, so follow me."
 He never said that. And even he taught them to obey what the Pharisees and scribes would tell them, in terms of morals and stuff like that, but don't do as they do, because they say good, right things, but they don't do it.
 Okay, so this is another problem. We see that following Christ must come from love. It must come from deep encounter with him.
 And it has to bring fruits, fruits of faith, which are love, patience, humbleness, prayer, trust in the Lord, compassion for others, forgiveness.
 All these things, they are fruits of life, fruits of life, detachment from this material world, detachment from politics.
 Okay, so let us be with Christ, let us be wise, let us be humble, let us pray for all the people who suffer now. Let us not be too much trouble by political agenda, by some other things, different agenda,
 which are aiming to make you troubled, aiming to make you worried, nervous, irritated, angry, all of that is the goal of the devil.
 So may us put focus on spiritual life, on the prayer, on the Holy Communion, on reading the Holy Gospel, living according to the Holy Gospel, and this will bring us out of every trap and every mistake.
 May the Lord help all of you and give you his blessing. Amen.
