 Dear brothers and sisters, my last video caused some misunderstanding about who are Jews, what is Judaism, and also about patriotism, nationalism, so today I want to make some clarifications, because this is important.
 Some people go into accusing Jews of all the sins, of killing Christ, of all the wars, all problems in history, enslavement of every nation and everything else.
 On the other hand, they say that Judaism is the source of everything, it's the source of Christianity, so they are our elder brothers, and we need to learn from them, and stuff like that, which is a complete betrayal of Christianity.
 Where do we find the truth? What is the truth? Today I hope that even Jews could listen to my video and would not be offended, and I'm talking about the Jews, religious Jews, because this is another question, is this a nation or is this religion?
 I believe that it depends on the person. If you believe that you are a Jew by an ethnic group, by ethnicity, you are a Jew by ethnicity. If you believe that you are a Jew by religion, then you are a Jew by religion, it's up to you.
 And people should not impose on each other, say "oh no, you are this" or "you are that". Let people decide, everyone decides himself, whether he is a Jew or he is not a Jew. This is one question.
 So, in the Soviet times, in these countries after Soviet Union, there is the idea that it's a nationality, that it's not a religion, because there were many atheist Jews.
 So, for Russians, for the Jews who come from USSR, they usually are understanding that it's just ethnic, it's about ethnic, it's not about religion.
 But other places, more traditional Jews in US and elsewhere, they would say "no, Jew means religion, if you are a Jew, you must believe this, this, this, otherwise you are not a Jew".
 Let people decide themselves, this is not my topic today. So, we as Christians, we must love everyone, this is fundamental.
 And there is no discrimination against any person, by his nation, religion, age, ability, anything else. People, every human being, are people of God.
 Created by the image of God, according to the image of God, and have this great dignity as children of God by their birth, children of God by faith, that's another question.
 But even by just being physically a human being, in some sense, we say he is a child of God, he belongs to God, he brings God, you can see image of God in him, in everyone.
 And God loves everyone, the most evil, most corrupt, most perverted person, God loves him and wants him to be saved. We read in the Bible that God wants every single person to be saved.
 So, for us, there is no one who is evil by himself, just as he is. There are evil things which are done by people, there are evil thoughts, evil ideas, evil ideologies, yes, we have that, but not the people as they are, who they are, by nature, if you will.
 So this is the first thing we must acknowledge. So we never would say that all Jews are guilty of that, so they are all cursed by the Lord. No, this is nonsense.
 This is not nonsense, this brings to facets. But another thing to hold that there is a nation which is above all nations, and all other nations are just pigs.
 They are just animals. But there is some nation which is super, super human, not really human. This is religious fascism and Nazism, and I don't want to say who that is, who believes in that way, maybe you know.
 So, what we can say, we need to distinguish Jews as people, including religious Jews, and Judaism as a religion, and Judaism as a religion has also different factions and denominations which don't get along with each other very often.
 And there are people also, they divide because they are seeking for truth. So in those denominations you can find many people who are looking for answers, and we need to talk to them, we need to witness our faith to them.
 And I believe that those who are humble and who are really righteous in their heart, they will find the truth, and they will discover Jesus Christ.
 Having said this, I want to say a few words about nationalism, because influence on Christianity of these Judaismic, rabbinistic, and later Talmudistic occultist ideas is huge.
 We have the Reformation, we have Catholicism, as a matter of fact Catholicism in itself is a product of these Judaistic ideas infiltrating into the Church, and this cutting away of the Roman Church is the same as cutting away of these Judaistic leaders by Christ in his time.
 Because they have no longer any blessing from the Lord to guide the flock of Christ, the flock of God, so the old Church lost the blessing, the old Israel, and the new Israel is the Church of Christ.
 And later the Church of Christ lost the Roman Church which slipped into a similar problem, so basically it was the Judaization of Christianity which happened.
 And later, further step, during reformation of this Judaization, this complete cut between God and this world, and this cut so there is no holy people, there is no divine liturgy, there is no holy relics, no sacraments, no priests, there is no holy tradition.
 Just people, just a piece of meat, and God is there, and only the Holy Bible which is falling from the sky, again the only Bible is holy, and they reject that Christ lives in Church until now.
 This is saying that only Bible is like shutting mouth to Jesus, say no more word, no single word, only Bible what's written, so the Lord you came only to give us some memories about what you said, because the New Testament pretty much is just some recollection about what Jesus has done and what he said.
 And nothing else, only things that you gave us, nothing else, but for the Church, Christ gave himself in the Holy Eucharist, when we receive the body and blood of Christ, we receive Christ himself, and he can speak to us, and he can live in us within the Church.
 And the Protestants are loathless, and this is Judaism, and also this legalistic understanding, justification, he is like a judge who says oh you're guilty and you're justified, this also this legalistic idea comes from Judaism.
 And later this putting a nation, nationalism, putting this Sikh nationalism, Sikh nationalism, when you attach religious importance to your nation, to your country, and it becomes above everything else.
 And this brought to the First World War, when the masses came from mass education, they were taught that their nation is everything, and they gave blood, earth, all these ideas is everything, and this comes from Judaism, because in the ancient world you don't find that, even in the Middle Ages you don't find that.
 Only in the time of Christ we see this fight for this nation, country, our land, our blood, and Jesus never supported that, Jesus never confirmed that this is right, he stayed away from all this political turmoil and all these nationalistic movements.
 So we can see that this also, this secularization, this rationalism, in the Middle Ages also this scholasticism, it's all coming from Judaism, from Kabbalah and occultist ideas, and as a matter of fact what we have now is transhumanism, it also comes from Kabbalah.
 So I don't want to say more, I don't want to expose what it is, you can read yourself, you can understand yourself what it is, because otherwise my video will be blocked, but I believe that this is a grave mistake, this is a grave mistake which brings terrible outcomes, and these outcomes will be even more terrible, and eventually will bring forth the fake Messiah,
 whom Jews wanted in the time of Christ, and that's why they crucified him, because actually they wanted Antichrist, and that's whom they want during all this, well, they, people who adhere to the religion of Judaism, they are misguided, they are inspired by the spirit of Antichrist, this is what it is.
 So we can see that 97%, they say, of people who adhere to Judaism are expecting Messiah, and we know that a political and earthly king of the universe is going to be the Antichrist.
 So we don't want to slip into it, we see that this happens basically because of Judaism, of Christianity, that the nations which once were Christian, now they became fake Christians, and they are, we see Germans, they became this Nazi, this fascism, super nation, super race.
 Where does it come from? You can tell me. And eugenics and many other things are targeted at this new world which will pave the way for Antichrist.
 And all the wars that we have now, which are getting worse and worse, you can trace some roots into this king of this world, about whom Christ said that he has nothing in me.
 So when we talk about a Jew, we can say that a real Jew is a Christian, because a Jew is the one who carries the glory of God, you and me. And in Romans chapter 2, we read that "For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh.
 But he is a Jew which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the latter, whose praise is not of man, but of God."
 So even at that time, there were attempts of Judaism of Christians. Some fake preachers came to Christians and said "You know, you need to be circumcised, you need also to obey all these rituals of Judaism, you will become Christians plus, you will become even higher and better and elite of Christians."
 That was attempt of Judaism. So if we be more careful about terms, we can say that we are Jews, we are the real Jews in the heart, Christians are the ones who are circumcised in the heart, if they are loyal to Christ, if they are not subject to this Judaism, that process which happened there.
 So let us know about this, let us be aware, and you will trace many things, Gnosticism and Mysticism, Theosophy and many other things, you can trace it back to Kabbalah and Talmud.
 And you will see, and of course it's coming from a spirit, it's not coming just from people, so there is always a spirit behind it, and I hope you understand which spirit.
 May the Lord give us the ability to distinguish spirits, actually we see in Romans, Romans chapter 12 verse 1 and 2, let's read verse 2.
 "And be not conformed to the spirit of this world, but be you transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God."
 So we may know what is the will of God if we distinguish the spirit of this world, fallen, earthly world, and the spirit of the Lord, which is divine, true, and brings true blessing.
 May the Lord give us this blessing, give us this wisdom, give us humbleness, give us love, may He guide all those who are still away from Him, who are still searching for answers, or who are in darkness and are not searching,
 may He bring all of them to the knowledge of the truth and to salvation in our Lord, the true Messiah and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.
 Christ be with you. Amen.
