 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say how the devil is trying to deceive the Orthodox Christians.
 And for him this is the greatest prize, the greatest success, because those who are united with the body of Christ,
 they have the promises and they have this right way of entering into the Kingdom of Heaven.
 And basically they are the presence of the God in this world, because they are his witnesses.
 So deceiving them will deprive this world of the truth and of even of the hope of salvation.
 And as a matter of fact there is no salvation outside the Church and the Orthodox Church.
 And other denominations who believe in Jesus, they have a chance to be saved only with those people there.
 They have a chance to be saved only if they pursue the truth which is in the Orthodox Church.
 So they become catechumens.
 This is another question today I want to say about how the devil is hacking the Orthodox.
 And as a matter of fact other Christians also, other heterodox, I identified at least 10 of those hacking points.
 And it's quite scary how the devil is using the true ideas, the true Christian faith.
 And through this he is deceiving, he is putting his own another meaning and another conclusion.
 We see that he was trying to deceive even Christ by using the Holy Scripture in the desert.
 So he is very smart.
 Because usually we think that the danger comes from what?
 The danger comes from outright sin that I commit, or it comes from something outside of the Church.
 It comes from other heresies, or some sects, or some philosophies, something outside the Church.
 But what's inside the Church, it's all good.
 But today we'll see that this is not as simple as it sounds.
 And this common conflict and this split in the Orthodox Church that we have now between different Orthodox
 is partly the reason for that.
 Because we see that the devil is trying to deceive even the chosen ones.
 In the Gospel Matthew 24 and Mark 13 is telling us about this.
 For example, we take chapter 24, verse 24, Matthew, "For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets,
 and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect."
 So he is trying, to the extent he can do that, to the extent possible, to deceive the elect.
 And I can tell you that he is successful on many occasions.
 Okay, so how is he doing that?
 Well, before we get into it, I want to also quote Peter, the first epistle of Peter, chapter 5, verse 8.
 The Lord is saying, "Be sober." The Apostle Peter is saying to the reader,
 "Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour,
 whom resist steadfast in the faith. You must resist steadfast in the faith,
 knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world."
 Well, we see that the Apostle Peter says, "You steadfast in the faith."
 Actually, the original Greek is telling us "fight against." The word there is more not just to "be against" or like "stop."
 No, it's more the word which is used in the war, the word that's "be against," "do the fight."
 So, he doesn't say "escape" or just "ignore" or just "forget about this."
 No, he says "be steadfast" and "face it" and "fight with it."
 So, this is our aim. And people who say, like the Protestants say, "No, relax, hallelujah, you're justified, hallelujah."
 No, no relaxation. If you want to be a Christian, there will be no time for relaxation.
 You will not relax, because you need to withstand the devil and the evil, both inside and in this world.
 So, let us see what he is saying, what the devil is saying.
 Well, the first thing that he is using, especially we see it now in the war, that life is not the greatest value.
 For the Christians, there are things which are more important than life.
 And people who throw others to go to war, they use the words of Christ.
 There is no greater love than to give over your life for your friend.
 So, you take a gun and you go kill people, and this is love. This is the conclusion.
 So, many people say to me, "You know, to avoid going to war is like going against Christian faith.
 Because Christian faith tells you that life is not the most important."
 You see how distorted, how sick this becomes.
 No matter for what reason, kill your brother just because your life is worthless, basically.
 Don't worry about your life, there are tasks which are more important.
 Of course there are, but not this one, not the one that you want me to die for.
 I will die for Christ if I have to, but not for some political agenda or something else.
 Not for Antichrist to build his new world order.
 This is another one which he is using.
 He is using the words of Christ, who said that who is not against you is for you.
 He is on your side.
 So, they say, "You see, there are two sides."
 And they put it backwards.
 They say, "Who is not with you, he is against you."
 Okay, so there are two sides to both conflicts, to these both big wars.
 Now we have Russia-Ukraine, or you can say Russia-NATO, or Russia-US.
 I don't know how you put it.
 Or there is Israel-Palestine, or Israel and Arabs.
 Okay, so you have to be on one side.
 You are on this side, the truth, the blessing, and everything else is on your side.
 And others are from the devil.
 They are satanists, they are whatever.
 They bring darkness, and they are not humans.
 So, just kill it.
 It's demons, it's worse than beasts.
 So, he is using this, he is twisting it to divide and conquer.
 And people are brainwashed and they don't understand.
 So, when they see somebody doesn't agree, they say, "Oh, you are from the other camp.
 If you are not with us, you are against us."
 So, we see how the devil can brainwash people.
 Another thing which is common in the Orthodox world, they say,
 "Well, you see, Christ, he established the Church, so we are saved as a Church, not individually.
 So, your individual understanding is from the devil.
 Just do what everybody else does.
 We have one mind.
 So, if everybody goes, you need to follow.
 Everything else comes from your brain, from your sinful mind, and just get rid of it.
 Comply. Solidarism. And we had it in the French Revolution, we had it many times.
 Not only in the Orthodox world.
 And basically what it is, they are trying to use Christian theology, Orthodox theology,
 but what it actually is, is this herd instinct.
 So, people are happy, "No, I don't have to think, great. Somebody will think for me.
 I don't have to take responsibility for what I do, great. I am safe.
 Because whatever I do, it's because somebody else told me."
 So, this is a very irresponsible, lazy world.
 So, people are happy to do that. Many people.
 And they use this Orthodox theology to replace, to explain, to justify this mindset.
 And basically they are hacked.
 And they become like this herd of swine, which were demon possessed,
 and they were thrown by these demons into the precipice and died in the sea, were choked.
 They all choked in the sea.
 So, this is what Bevov is doing. And he is trying to use the Christian teaching for that.
 Everybody will have his own responsibility for what he's done and what he hasn't.
 We find great many passages in the Bible to show us that.
 Another thing that he is using is from an apostle Paul who said that all authority is from God.
 So, he says, "You see, those authorities, the government, those policies, it's all from the God.
 Even if we have bad government, that's because of our sins, so we just have to comply."
 And this is also wrong understanding.
 Because the apostle Paul is telling us about authority in the sense that there is authority in a family.
 That there is a head of family and others respect him and there is this mutual sacrifice.
 And there used to be this in the countries where there was hierarchy, not of power and domination,
 but of mutual respect and trust and love.
 But this is all destroyed.
 So, what we have now is anti-authority.
 We have anti-elite elite, which are not responsible, which they don't care.
 They just use this power to rule and to get some benefits from what they do.
 And even families, they don't have this authority about which the apostle Paul says.
 They become just your rights, my rights, your responsibilities, my responsibilities, like partnership or contract.
 And in the society, if I say social contract, which is not love, it's not authority which is from God.
 So, people reject that authority which is from God.
 So, it's all perverted. It's all wrong now.
 And then another place where this point of hacking is belief into the providence of God.
 And people say, "Whatever we have, we have war, we have epidemics, we have some hunger, famine, it all comes from God.
 It's all in the providence of God. He has this plan for it.
 So, we should not do anything.
 We just receive it because of our sins, because of our other reasons.
 But we just receive it because this is supposed to happen.
 Things which are already written by the prophets in the revelation.
 So, it's just happening in the way it should happen.
 So, we don't do anything.
 This is belief in predestination, which is not orthodox.
 It's also belief in fortune, which is like a pagan goddess and agnostic.
 And Buddhist, it is samsara.
 And this has nothing to do with true Christianity.
 But many people believe that.
 Another problem that the orthodox have is that they say just formally receiving something is enough.
 And in this way we slip into Catholicism and Protestantism, which is legalism.
 Just some legal understanding about God and salvation.
 I cannot go too deep into it, but in the author's world it's done this way.
 They say, "Well, you have to be baptized. Before you die, you need to confess and receive the Holy Communion.
 If you do these things, don't worry. You'll go to heaven. Everything will be fine."
 This is formalism.
 You have to be canonical, you have not to be in the split.
 You have your bishop, you're canonical, don't worry.
 You have this link to God, it's fine, it's weatherproof, so don't worry.
 Well, this is heresy.
 Because if your heart doesn't have Christ, if you did not put on Christ, no matter what you do,
 sacraments, liturgy, confession, it will not help.
 We had so many revolutionaries who were children of priests and they went to Sunday school.
 And then they killed a massive number of people.
 And when they were asked, "Why do you do that? Didn't you read the Gospel which says to love people?"
 They said, "No, we didn't ever read it. We just kissed the book in the church.
 We need to just kiss it and that's it. That's our relationship with the Gospel."
 So this formality, this ritual is fine.
 People say, "Oh, this is everything."
 Because it's traditional, so we just go by tradition and don't worry about the rest.
 So this brings us to this formalism which is the same as Catholic and Protestant.
 Legalistic. Different shape, different form, but it's also legalism.
 It's like opera operatin, Catholic church and justification in the Protestant, which is all about legalism.
 God is just judge who just looks at some formal things and that's how you are saved.
 So let us overcome these things.
 Let us know that these are just some.
 I have at least 10 here, but it's just going to make it too long.
 If you're interested, I can record, I can talk more about other points of breakage, points of hacking.
 How the devil is putting spiritual viruses.
 And the reason for success is that people on a daily basis, they don't change, they have a sinful life.
 And when you have a sinful life, you don't fast, you don't have ascetic life.
 Your mind and your heart will be darkened and you're easy to be deceived.
 That's how they hack Orthodox Christians.
 May we be vigilant, may we keep the guard and have the wisdom of Christ, the true love, the blessing and guidance from Him.
 So that we can avoid all this deception and all these errors, all these traps that are made by devil against the chosen ones, children of Christ.
 I mean, may the Lord be with you and with your families, your friends.
