 "Dear brothers and sisters, now is Advent, we are approaching the nativity of Christ,
 and it's very important to think deeply about the meaning, what does it mean, and what to
 expect and how to prepare, what to prepare for.
 And with our commercialized society, it's very similar, okay?
 We have some celebration, for example, we have Halloween, everything, they're selling
 all this stuff, then everything changes, now selling all Christmas stuff, then everything
 changing, selling something else.
 So it seems as this is like one of just occasions, some special time, seasons, greetings, people
 sometimes avoid even saying Christmas.
 And for many people it's similar to New Year, okay, the New Year is coming, so it's all
 about those holidays and a table where we drink, go to restaurants, prepare gifts to
 each other, nice music and stuff like that, decorations.
 But we need to remember that the light is shining in the darkness, and the darkness
 actually gets worse.
 And we should not have some rosy feeling that, okay, the Lord is bringing peace and everything
 is so rosy and romantic and so nice.
 He said that I don't think that I brought peace to earth, I brought a sword and not
 peace.
 Not that he wants people to fight, but he wants the truth to manifest itself.
 And the truth and righteousness is something that people don't want to receive, okay?
 People want to sit in this darkness, in the being hypnotized, being asleep, being in this
 dream, okay, which is not real, in this fake reality which people live in, okay?
 And if you don't believe me, just try to pray, okay?
 When you pray, you want to fall asleep, or you have so many thoughts about some other
 things that is, okay, more important, you think, okay, I need to do this, this, this,
 pray a little later, okay?
 This means that this is our darkness, okay?
 This means that we are still asleep, we're still far away.
 Our heart has not waken up yet to minister the Lord.
 We should not fool ourselves, okay, it's not enough just to be baptized, okay?
 We are still very much servants of flesh and mamma, okay, let's put it this way.
 Let's be honest to ourselves.
 And once the truth comes, we will be troubled.
 Once we have the truth coming to ourselves, we remember Jerusalem was troubled, and King
 Herod was troubled, and he ordered to kill 14,000 babies, and he would order to kill
 everybody.
 He dropped an atomic bomb, or anything else, okay, doesn't matter how many people die,
 that he can preserve his power, that the system of delusion, the system of exploiting people,
 it can keep going, this mammonic system, based on fake realities, cheating others, okay,
 depriving them of their rights, of their dignity, all that was running, okay?
 So that's why the whole Jerusalem was troubled.
 That's why people in that Gennesaret did not want to receive Jesus, they wanted their pigs,
 they wanted their tasty life and income, they didn't want to throw this all away.
 And we don't want to have any risk to our life, okay?
 Because maybe it will be painful if we lose our job, which is involving some sin, or something
 else might happen because the Lord, okay, doesn't like what we do.
 No, we don't want to think about this, okay?
 And people don't want to think about this.
 So this is the biggest concern, is that we don't penetrate into deep spiritual reality
 of what does it mean, the coming of Christ.
 Okay, now let us think about the expectations of people in those days, and what is happening
 now.
 There were many similarities, great number of similarities, we can see that they were
 expecting some savior in those days.
 Now of course some revisions, Judas, they wake Messiah, like every year they want him
 to come, okay?
 Because they still think that they're in exile and the world is in alienation and Messiah
 has to come and build a temple and so forth.
 And but other nations, especially people who maybe they call themselves Christians,
 but they are nominal Christians, they don't care about following Christ, wait for the
 new world order, that technologies or maybe Elon Musk or maybe artificial intelligence
 or some super power, new United Nations or something will come and will help solve all
 the problems we have, we have those wars and many, many things, okay?
 Community crisis, technological uncertainties, poverty, climate, risk and many, many other
 things.
 The world is going crazy, we need somebody or something to come and save this world.
 It's only very few who are loyal to Christ, who don't expect some big great improvement
 in this world before the coming of Christ, the second coming of Christ.
 Especially as a matter of fact we are getting ready for something much worse, for the Antichrist
 in his kingdom to come before the coming of Christ with great tribulation and great persecution
 of the church.
 This is what we are getting ready for and we would be those children most likely who
 were killed when Herod was searching for Christ.
 We need to be ready for Golgotha, okay?
 So these thoughts I think are more relevant in these days and we see how many people are
 being killed, innocent now already and next year even more so, who are killed because
 of someone's ambitions, for someone is serving Mammon and Antichrist and even some church
 people are doing that, but we should not be discouraged by that.
 We need to be loyal to the Christ, we need to be united with his Holy Church in the prayer,
 in the Holy Eucharist, in following the spiritual tradition of the Holy Fathers and this can
 keep us afloat, this can keep us in the light.
 Now let us consider what are the similarities and what is the main difference between humanity
 in those days and now?
 Well the similarities include many, there are many.
 We had globalization back then, Roman Empire and globalized through transport, through
 trade, international trade, very convenient, through communications, this postal system
 which was working great.
 Nothing like that happened in the ancient times, before that, and after that for more
 than a thousand years, nothing like that.
 We had the Middle Ages, Dark Ages, until the recent times, until modernity, we didn't have
 that level of communication and transport that we used to have during those days when
 Christ was born.
 At the same time we have this colonization that we have now also, it's not called that
 way but it is economic subdue, killing of economies of weaker countries to subdue them
 economically and politically, and we have those nationalistic wars in those days also.
 And many people died for nothing and same now, die, well not for nothing, but for some
 useless things, for someone's ambition or someone's income, or for Antichrist who wants
 to build his kingdom.
 In those days, similar, millions of people were dying in some wars, conquering, someone
 conquering this, someone conquering that, and people had this holy war in Judea and
 were dying for that, and we have similar things going on now, of course not only now, but now
 it's getting worse and worse.
 Also the technology was advancing very rapidly in those days, the sewage system, the mechanisms
 that they were inventing, it's amazing.
 Many sciences and astronomy, many many things, we have now also great development of science
 and technology, and people get reliant on that technology.
 Currency, economic development, financial development was developing rapidly, we have
 that now also, and unification of languages, in those days we had most of the world could
 speak Latin or Greek, and also we had in those days development of religion, many many different
 new religions established.
 And same now, we have so many new religions now, and also we have the syncretism, the
 religions mixed together and creating something which seems to be new, just mixing everything
 together, ecumenism, that happened in those days also.
 We also have, just a moment, let me ask them not to do this sound, just a moment, I think
 we cannot stop that, ok it doesn't matter, let me continue.
 We had many mystical religions in those days, and same now, we have many religions which
 are mysticism, oculothism, so people were obsessed about Kabbalah and other mystical
 things, esoteric religions and theosophy and many other things, it was also very popular
 in those days.
 Also we have in those days moral problems, big big problems, both in the regular people,
 in the elite, those emperors, it was very pervert, it was very bad.
 And similar now, it's much worse, we have same things but worse, much worse in our days.
 And everybody was waiting for some Messiah, for some Savior, as a matter of fact even
 in China, which was far away from the Roman Empire, even in China people were waiting
 for some Messiah, and He came, you know this Tsim Shih Hwa, who united the whole China
 and stopped all these wars, so He was bringing peace and things like that, also because people
 were expecting Him, and also people were very obsessed about money and everything was being
 sold and bought, same in the Roman Empire, so all the nobility went down, actually culture,
 everything went down in those days.
 And even philosophy, there were no great new philosophers, same now, philosophy reached
 some endpoints, post-modernism, post-post-modernism, basically people don't know what's next,
 everybody has different opinions, and basically people get far away from philosophy, more
 and more, less and less people are interested in philosophy.
 Another degradation was happening back then, so we see that there are many similarities,
 but there is a big and principal difference between what's happening now and what was
 happening back then.
 And this difference is that in those days all those troubles, all those problems were
 coming from slavery, that people were enslaved by the Mammon, and they did not have the truth
 and the source of salvation available to them, they did not possess that, but it was given
 to them.
 The Lord came to humanity in those days because He saw the potential, He saw that they were
 still not so much destroyed, that some of them they will repent and then they will embrace
 Him and He can entrust this mission to them, that they can continue to this mission.
 And He came in those days in a humble way, revealing His humbleness and through this
 self-emptiness, this humility, He taught people repentance, compassion, humbleness, and that
 all of this can trample the Mammon, can overthrow this vainglorious, this demon with all his
 passions and all the delusions that he works with.
 And that was done.
 And this victory is available to us.
 And this victory is what the Apostle Paul is calling the mystery of godliness.
 Okay, let's look at Timothy.
 First Epistle to Timothy chapter 3 verse 16.
 And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness.
 God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels, preached unto
 the Gentiles, believed on in the world, risen into glory.
 The coming of Christ, what we now expect to celebrate is the mystery of godliness.
 And we are all parts of this mystery.
 We are all witnesses of this mystery, while all this darkness, all this evil is the part
 of the mystery of the godlessness, of the lawlessness, which Apostle Paul also speaks
 about.
 All this great conspiracy of devil against humanity, but we need to overthrow this conspiracy.
 We should not be afraid of anything, of any darkness.
 And this gives us great immense power, because the weapon of victory given to us is the Holy
 Cross and the Holy Communion.
 And through the Holy Cross we trample devil and all his darkness.
 And this all comes with the coming of Christ on earth.
 This is what we celebrate.
 This is what we are getting ready for.
 And we are ready to embrace our own cross, to carry it on.
 No matter how difficult it can get, and no matter what kind of challenge is coming to
 us, let us be strong, be faithful, loyal to Christ, and not be misled by these superficial
 celebrations, and not being friends to this world, being friends only to Christ.
 And while having great love to the people in this world, we don't get into union with
 all the spirit of this world, with all the fakeness of this world, with all this comfort,
 all these passions that are brought by this world.
 We detach ourselves from this, and we attach ourselves to Christ.
 Amen.
 God bless.
