 Dear brothers and sisters, last week there was no video because I was on a mission trip to China, just came back.
 The Orthodox Church is growing there and getting stronger in terms of faith.
 More people are active in organizing services, even without priests.
 It's very inspiring to see how the Lord is doing his work in this country, which is still illegal to preach Orthodox.
 So there you really recall those days of Nero and Trajan and all those emperors who were making Christianity illegal, forbidden.
 Well, please pray for the mission in China.
 Today, I want to share with you on something that's important, and especially during these holy days of Advent.
 We are preparing for the Christmas, which is coming. January 6th is the Christmas Eve and January 7th is the Christmas in the Orthodox Church.
 So we are still on this path and we will think deeply about what is the Lord's coming and why people didn't receive him.
 Because one of the key issues here is the problem of mind and heart.
 Sometimes mind understands things, but it doesn't want to accept it because the heart is corrupted.
 The heart doesn't love God.
 So they say those high priests, they understood that Jesus was the Messiah, but their heart belonged to the devil.
 And that's why they didn't receive him as a Messiah.
 Well, this happens every day with every one of us, and it's called cognitive distortion.
 And these distortions are used by all kinds of manipulators, from advertising to propaganda to everywhere, in the media, through channels.
 I think you know a lot about this.
 But usually it's studied from the point of view of psychology or maybe sociology.
 However, the Holy Fathers, they have told us many important insights into the human soul and why these things happen.
 Because usually we have a rationalistic mind and we think that if somebody doesn't understand something, you just explain to him.
 That's why we need public education, so people know more, they are more intelligent, more knowledgeable.
 We need to have more public information about everything.
 Well, that doesn't solve the problem.
 Actually, it can make the problem worse.
 You know, there is a paradox.
 The more education we have, we don't have almost no illiterate people.
 Everybody can read now.
 And everybody has some basic education.
 It's compulsory now to have basic education.
 Many people have degrees and masters, doctors and whatnot.
 However, the degree of stupidity in this world is alarming.
 We have more wars, we have more moral degradation than ever.
 People are killing their children more than ever before.
 Divorces and all kinds of things.
 And actually the Apostle Paul connects this with not receiving Christ.
 We are now expecting Christ. Here you see the manger.
 We are expecting Christ and the Apostle Paul said that these Gentiles did not receive the Lord.
 Their hearts were attached to the few useless things of this world.
 And their minds were dimmed, were blinded,
 so that they will fall into all kinds of immoral behaviour,
 capotiary and all kinds of ksodomiyya and many other things.
 So this is what's happening now big time.
 So we can see here there is a relationship.
 Receiving Christ, accepting him as a saviour, as a messiah.
 Mind is darkened if you don't accept him.
 And also the heart attached to these worldly things.
 And also moral degradation.
 These three things or four things, they are all together.
 They are put together by the Apostle Paul.
 So this explains a lot actually.
 And we will also talk about the way out.
 First of all I want to bring some examples.
 For example the most common degree is that we perceive problems in others,
 but we don't perceive it in ourselves.
 So we can see that he is doing that, this accusation.
 It's all other people, they have problems.
 Myself, we don't notice it.
 But if we think just logically, we will see that we are worse,
 but we don't see it.
 We don't want to see it and we don't understand it and we ignore it.
 Also putting myself as the most important thing in the world.
 It's natural for humans to perceive the world as egocentric.
 So me, ego, is in the center because I perceive this world from this point of view.
 So that's why I'm in the center.
 This seems logical.
 And that's why also I'm the most important thing in this world.
 Well, if we would have a logical mind, we would understand that this is just a perspective.
 That in reality this is not true.
 I'm not the most important, I'm not in the center.
 But we don't want to think.
 And that's why our heart is proudness, vainglory, so it's blinded.
 And we think that we are in the center, which is a mistake, which is a distortion.
 Another common distortion, for example, is stereotapism.
 We create stereotypes.
 Actually the brain, this used to be something which would help our brain.
 If we can grasp some common characteristics of some group, for example, I don't know, some nation or some social group.
 I don't know, taxi drivers or I don't know, bureaucrats.
 We grasp some common thing about them.
 But if we would have a healthy mind and heart, we would see at every stage, every single human person, we would see that he is unique.
 And whether we should apply this or not.
 But actually we don't, we don't do that.
 Usually we just say "Oh, he's a bureaucrat, I know everything about him."
 Or, I don't know, some idea about women.
 Okay, now I understand why it happens, she's a woman, okay, I know.
 And you know, things like this.
 And this makes our mind very stiff and inflexible and blind.
 So sometimes we don't think, we don't understand some basic things.
 And we see this problem even happened in the Christian communities, when rich and poor they were dividing.
 And the rich would have their own little divine gathering.
 And the poor later, okay.
 So, the apostle Paul was criticizing this big time.
 And so we see how this can harm even the church.
 Okay, what else?
 Or now these political things, okay, people say "Oh, Americans, or Russians, or whatever, okay, they're all like that."
 Well, it's not that simple, okay, things are not that simple.
 And the devil is using this distortion to lead us into some error.
 Another thing, of course, is the mythology, okay.
 In the ancient times people believed in some elves and some, you know, I don't know, wizards or something like that.
 Some magical spells and stuff like that.
 And now we laugh, "Oh, they were so naive to believe in that."
 But now we believe in other myths, okay.
 We believe in some, I don't know, universal conscience about something, okay.
 The world condemns something.
 Which world? Who condemns?
 Or with this political also, okay, now Israel wants this.
 Or now Beijing decided that.
 France retaliates and, I don't know, Russia has some demands in the, I don't know, where, in the Far East or in somewhere else, okay.
 Well, this is a myth, okay.
 Many things like that, they're already myths, okay, they don't exist anymore.
 So it should be used with extreme caution.
 But people believe that and they don't use their mind, okay.
 They read news, "Oh, this is how it is."
 Or they listen to the blogger or whoever they believe they trust and they turn off their mind.
 And same goes with science, okay.
 People don't go and research things.
 They just listen to somebody who represents, "Oh, this guy, he is approved, he is the voice of a science, he tells everybody to put on masks."
 Okay, this is the truth and we have to do masks, okay.
 Actually, that's just another way to break your will, okay.
 To impose some things like masks or something else.
 This is one of the techniques to break your will, which if you don't have it, your mind is weak.
 So that's why we have all, you know, revolutions, people are swept into some idea, okay.
 And they go and they follow something, like a herd of animals, they rush into something.
 Okay, we have all those market collapses, we have wars.
 They all happen because of that, you know, something is pulling people all in one direction, in some direction, okay.
 And they don't have their own mind, okay.
 The mind is weak, they, logically, they can understand that that's wrong.
 But their will is very weak and their mind is weak.
 Well, maybe I'll explain a bit.
 The mystery of the soul, what is human soul, is a big mystery, okay.
 And many philosophers and theologians, they were thinking about it.
 And many holy fathers were thinking about it.
 And they say that after Adam fell, okay, with Eve.
 Well, Adam and Eve, they disobeyed the Lord, they didn't want to fast.
 We are now fasting for the Christmas, okay.
 But they decided not to fast, they don't want to fast.
 Which was like much, it was very simple, just not to eat that one fruit.
 They ate it and they disobeyed God.
 And what happened is that the mind and heart were separate.
 They were split apart and also distorted.
 And this is what we have, we inherit this brokenness of human nature.
 So our heart is attached to something wrong, to something which is relative.
 That's why the Lord always said, don't love what is in this world.
 You cannot serve mammon and God, okay.
 Your heart is attached to mammon, okay, to this world, to richness, to something else.
 And that's why you cannot serve the Lord.
 So this is the problem of the heart.
 And then the problem of the mind is that it becomes slave of emotions, memories and external factors, okay.
 So it's an easy way to test it when you pray when you're distracted.
 I am distracted.
 Most people are distracted when they try to pray.
 And this means that our mind cannot follow the intention that we give it.
 We say you need to pray now, you need to talk to God now.
 But memories come and they say, okay, I forgot something, what is happening there, what happened yesterday.
 And our attention is swinging in that direction.
 And then after five minutes we say, what am I reading, what is going on, okay.
 Or maybe some bell rings or there is some noise outside and external factors or some emotions, okay, I feel sad, okay, or I feel something else.
 And all of a sudden my attention is away.
 This means that my mind is weak, it's a slave of all these things and also it's detached from the heart.
 So I don't put my heart into the prayer and my heart is filled with all kinds of stuff.
 So this sick state of my soul, weak and sick, is the problem that every one of us has and humanity as a whole.
 And the local churches, they also can have that, okay, even groups of Christians.
 So all these problems, they are big and they need to be fixed.
 Okay, just a couple more examples.
 Another distortion is that when we have a passion in our heart, for example, greed, or say, we envy someone.
 Someone has some success and we don't even know him personally.
 He doesn't know us, we don't know him.
 But he's already an enemy.
 He attained something which I have not.
 So I look at him as an enemy.
 Nothing happened, he didn't do any harm to me, but he is an enemy.
 Okay, is it not a mental distortion?
 That's a big distortion because subjectively it's not a fact, there is no conflict between us.
 But our heart makes him an enemy already.
 So our mind is switched off.
 It's not about understanding or not understanding.
 It's just my heart is already influencing my mind and says, "Okay, he's an enemy."
 You don't like him, he is okay.
 And similar things happen because of other passions.
 For example, proudness.
 Proudness and anger, they can make other people lose their human status for you.
 So for example, something who is poor.
 If you have this anger and you have proudness, then you would think,
 "Okay, this guy, he is lazy, he is not supposed to occupy this space,
 and basically he is not a human because we can get rid of him.
 So he is losing this human value for us."
 Which according to mind is blindness.
 Because we are all humans and we all have our weaknesses.
 We all make mistakes.
 And it's easy to understand how you could be in his place easily.
 But we don't want to think about it.
 We just have this judgment, we don't see our own failures.
 "This guy, he is not supposed."
 Or there was propaganda just recently that people in the Middle East,
 who are now bombed every day, who I'm talking about,
 those people, they're animals, they're beasts, all of them.
 All of them are terrorists.
 Which means that you can kill them.
 If they're beasts, they're not humans, kill them.
 So that's... I cannot say this word,
 but this is what happened in the last century in the 40s in Germany.
 This is much worse because there it was not destroying,
 like saying this out loud, that we need to destroy all of them.
 But now it's said out loud.
 Another distortion is when we don't have temperance,
 if we don't practice fasting,
 if we don't restrict ourselves in anything,
 and there is no one else, boss or relatives, who can restrict us.
 So this is too much.
 There is a development of this passion that we want something without limit.
 It could be wealth, it could be comfort, it could be anything.
 It could be some experiences like watching movies or eating popcorn or anything.
 And our mind can easily understand that I just need this much,
 which will be enough.
 But our heart is sick, so the heart is saying no.
 Now you have so much, you need more.
 You gain more, it tells you no, you need even more.
 And it will go without limit.
 Which is crazy because it's not in line with the common sense or with logic,
 which you can calculate.
 For this purpose, I need so much.
 That's it.
 So this is another distortion.
 You think that you need limitless, I don't know, money,
 I don't know, some experience in different countries or whatever,
 movies, games, limitless, which is a great distortion of your mind.
 Well, any addiction is like that.
 Any addiction, be it a digital addiction or alcohol or food, it can be anything.
 Talking, talking with people, Facebook, chatting, it could be anything.
 And the last distortion I want to mention is not recognizing mistakes.
 If you begin something and then you see that it's a mistake,
 you objectively know that this is a mistake.
 But your heart, because you're proud, well, not you, all of us,
 we are proud, so that's why we don't want to recognize this mistake.
 And we just keep doing it till the end.
 Just do it, do it, do it.
 And we get deeper and deeper and deeper into this mistake
 and unless something happens which will stop this process,
 we will just pursue that thing, which is really not intact with the logic.
 This is a distortion.
 Normal logic will tell you that, okay, enough, this is a mistake, stop.
 But we say, no, I already invested so much stuff into it.
 It's my time, my something, so I just keep going.
 And people lose their lives like that.
 So this is another example.
 What can we do about this?
 Okay, what can be done?
 Well, the healing of the soul comes through prayer, repentance, fasting,
 leading a virtuous life, always exerting effort, pushing ourselves into change,
 into following Christ, serving him, stopping our selfishness,
 our attachment to this world, cutting this decisively.
 Christ always needs this will which is so weak in us.
 We need to push ourselves.
 When we don't push ourselves, time goes fast.
 We can do something, some hobby or something else, time runs,
 watch movie, time runs.
 That means that we are asleep, we are spiritually asleep.
 And the Lord tells us, be awake.
 I will judge you in the state that I will find you in.
 If I find you in this, okay, your mind, your heart switched off,
 you're immersed in some activity which is useless,
 that's how I will judge you.
 So we need to learn this ascetic principle
 that whatever I do, I have to exert my will into doing this.
 I have to go against my passive and corrupted nature
 and I will improve, I will do what the Lord wants.
 And the great way of doing this, of making our minds stronger
 is through prayer of the heart.
 Prayer of the heart is the ascetic tradition of hesychasts.
 The prayer which at the core is the repetition of the Jesus prayer.
 We use a prayer rope and we repeat the Jesus prayer,
 Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner.
 And we repeat it many times, 20, 30, 100 times,
 a few hundred times in order to repent and to focus.
 It will help you much better to focus on the prayer
 because it's brief, it has repentance in it,
 so you don't get proud or something else about that you're praying
 because this is repentance by itself.
 And it will help you focus on any other prayer,
 on participation in the divine service or in some ministry that you do
 or in some studies, especially reading the Holy Scripture and spiritual works.
 And it actually will help you in whatever you do
 because that will make your mind stronger,
 that will make your will stronger and your heart will be healed gradually
 and united back with the mind.
 So I really recommend to learn more about Jesus prayer.
 I will be saying more about it in my videos, future videos,
 but think now deeply about it.
 This is a path to healing, to recovery of the mind, of the heart,
 of the free will that we have and of avoiding so many mistakes,
 of really living in this awakeness and expectation of our Lord
 in the leave ministry to him without any delusion,
 without being deceived by the spirit of this world
 and by the old self which is still in every one of us.
 It has to be crucified, it has to be destroyed.
 We have to die for the world and the world will die for us
 so that we can live for Christ and his kingdom.
 May the Lord give you the strength, give you this vision,
 the eagerness to follow this path and protect you from every failure,
 every temptation and every delusion coming from the world
 or from the self or from the devil.
 May the Lord bless you and your families.
