 Dear brothers and sisters, we are entering the New Year, and for us, of course, the calendar is not that important, this worldly calendar.
 But for us, it is important that the Lord is giving us more time. This is a good opportunity to think about the whole idea of counting years after the coming of the Lord to this world.
 And even though there may be a mistake of a couple of years, the meaning by itself that we live in this era of Messiah, we live after the Christmas, after the coming of Christ.
 And this new era is the era of salvation, and when everyone is invited to enter into the Kingdom of the Lord, to this feast which is already happening.
 We already participate in this feast, but even a greater participation is yet to come. It's already, but not yet.
 We become children of the Kingdom of Heaven now already, and this is the meaning of the whole existence, the meaning of why the world is still going on.
 So this New Year tells us, this coming of this New Year should tell us that the Lord still has patience, that the Lord still sees that there is a meaning in this world and in the life of every one of us.
 During this past year, if we look back, we see that many people did not make it. During this year, there were wars, pandemics, there are millions of people who died just because of drug overdose.
 Not talking about suicides and other crazy deaths, which would be strongly against the will of God when people kill each other on purpose.
 The Lord allows this to happen, but of course this is against His will, especially when people die in sin and there is no way to fix it anymore, to repent.
 And too much of this is because of us, because of us who discovered the Lord, discovered His Kingdom, have this calling, but we have not done enough to bring the gospel, to do this testimony to them, make them see that there is a way out, that there is the Lord and there is real.
 And even the worst sinner can be recovered and can become God by grace, because people die thinking that there is no hope. Usually that's how it happens.
 They are immersed in the sin and they don't find a way out of it.
 So this is one thing which I hope we can think about deeply. Another thing is our spiritual life, which is closely related, because the lack of our testimony comes from the lack of our union with Christ and having Him live in us and His Kingdom be in us.
 Because we are still part of this ocean with these waves and all this turmoil that's happening. We are immersed in this secular life, in the passions, in the events, in fears, in everything that's happening in this world.
 Because we are still so much attached to all these things, but we need to live by the Spirit.
 And only by setting ourselves aside from this tumult, from this tempest, we can see what is happening.
 We can have a spiritual understanding inside, not only into our own problems, but into the problems of this world as well.
 So this is another important goal that we need to set, revising our spiritual life.
 We also seize this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Lord for everything that's happened during this past year.
 We need to acknowledge that we didn't thank Him during the year the way we should, especially for the sorrows, for the pains that happened that took place during this year.
 We don't thank God even for some good things.
 So now is also a good time to have this accumulated, to try to make up for all this lack of thanksgiving to the Lord, to express our gratitude, especially for the pain.
 Because sorrows, they are our teacher, and they are often the visitation of the Lord to us, that the Lord still gives us hope that we can improve, that we can change, we can learn something.
 We can learn repentance, compassion, selflessness, true prayer that's coming from the heart.
 We can learn this spiritual discipline and many other things and wisdoms from the sorrows that we have to go through.
 And now, having made some conclusions about this year that's passing by, let us think about the year ahead.
 For us, we don't take this progress idea that everything is improving, getting better, and stuff like that to some bright future.
 We know that there is an end to this world, and every year we're approaching, we're getting closer, one step closer, every day, and especially every year, we come closer to this conclusion.
 Because this conclusion will happen in the year, I don't know, 2000 something, or 3000 something, but it will be also another year.
 Now it's 2024, so it's a step closer, okay?
 Let's think about it this way.
 So, what to expect?
 Well, first thing is that, well, I'm not a political advisor or some economic analyst, expert, so whenever I talk about worldly things, it's just to express some of my observations in a very general way.
 And just to give us extra motivation not to delve into it, but to be ready for anything that's happening.
 And in that sense, I could say that the new year could bring us, well, this is what the analysts, what the secular analysts say, okay?
 Basically what they expect is, generally speaking, the agenda of the prince of this world, okay?
 And the prince of this world has the agenda, which is nothing new, okay?
 It's nothing new, but we can see which direction it's moving now.
 The whole ocean drifting that way, it's going to be more chaos, it's going to be more division, it's going to be more control over human freedoms, thoughts, brainwashing, greater control of conscience.
 That you must become part of this swirl, polarization of opinions, only elections in many countries, most of the world, which are going to bring more totalitarian government.
 The many goals and the rules that they bring, trade-wise, in terms of laws, it's going to be more dictatorship everywhere.
 And many other things, a great impact on the population, this agenda of depopulation, through war, famine, sickness, all kinds of ways.
 What else? Well, more digitalization, control of every step of your transactions, of your thoughts, more poverty, less middle class, many things like this.
 We can say that all of that is coming, we can expect that. And for a Christian, the conclusion about this is not fear or escape, escaping this, or buying, I don't know, some cans, or building a bunker or something.
 No, for a Christian, the answer is that he has to nurture internal world.
 What is the prayer of heart? What does it mean to guard your heart and to nurture your mind in Christ?
 How to gain the peace of the Lord in my soul? This must be for us the ultimate goal of our daily life.
 I don't have this peace yet. I'm swayed by my emotions, by the news, by problems with my job. My family matters. I'm still earthly. I'm still flesh. I want to be guided by the Holy Spirit.
 This goal we need to set. The Jesus prayer is a great help for us in this, that through praying we learn through repentance.
 We learn through dialogue with the Lord. We nurture all virtues.
 We grow in Christ. We get the anchor of salvation for ourselves and for the people around us.
 This is what's going to matter and everything else will be very relative. We need to set this goal for this new year.
 Vigilance. We need to tell ourselves I don't have vigilance yet. I am either fully asleep spiritually or I fall asleep all the time. I'm like, you know, falling, like waking up and falling again.
 This is what's happening with most of us. And many great many of us are still asleep. Let us wake up. Let us see what does it mean to be at every moment in the presence of the Lord.
 To have this dialogue with Him everywhere, everyplace. That the prayer would be very natural for us wherever we are. We say a few words to the Lord.
 This is the spiritual need of our heart. This has to become reality for us, for every one of us.
 May the Lord help us on this path. May He help us escape every delusion, even spiritual delusion.
 Every hit from the left or from the right, from the left is not political. The left is something bad when He is trying to pull us into something which is outright evil.
 From the right is when He is giving us some good thoughts. Do more prayer, help this person, whatever. But these are fake.
 These are fake because this will happen not in the proper time. This will bring us into some other passion, vainglory or something else.
 But He sometimes gives us seemingly good thoughts. But it's also a trick from the devil.
 Let us gain the wisdom and the vision to be able to see all those plots and all those tricks of the adversary.
 And to unroot this leviathan, this old self from ourselves, to kill it, to crucify it. Otherwise we will be the propagators of evil.
 We are, as a matter of fact. But we have to do something about it with the Lord's help.
 May the Lord give us His blessing for the upcoming year. May He help us prepare our hearts for His coming on the holy Christmas which is about to come.
 And may He set us on the firm path of salvation.
 We need to learn also temperance. Just few stuff is enough. This is a great virtue. We will need it when things get harder and harsher.
 And also patience to be able to endure whatever it is. Pain, physical, spiritual, psychological, be it loneliness, be it some kind of fears.
 We have to be able to go through this no matter how long do we need to suffer that. May the Lord give us this courage, this decisiveness in following Him, in carrying out our cross.
 And in being the good witnesses of His love, of His humbleness and His compassion for every human soul.
 May the Lord help every one of us give us His blessing on this upcoming year. I mean, Happy New Year.
