 Dear brothers and sisters, the 40 days of Advent are almost over, and we are entering
 into the mystery of the Christmas, of nativity of Christ.
 The last five days of the Christmas Lent are especially strict, because we need to focus
 very deeply on the meaning and on the spirit of the Lord's coming.
 And for us to resonate, to be in one mind with the Lord, to be able to receive this
 mystery, we need to exert great spiritual effort.
 It's not enough just to switch on famous Christmas music, put some decoration, buy some presents
 to other people, say Merry Christmas or season's greetings, everybody is happy, everything
 is fine, okay, celebrate.
 This is profanation.
 We need to think really deeply, and not just to think, we need to pray and we need to gain
 this spirit.
 Today, I want to say about my recent thoughts on the spirit of the Lord's coming, because
 the whole world, including us, we're still so far away from the spirit.
 Well, first of all, let us think about the news of the Lord's coming.
 Only two people knew what was happening.
 First was Maria, she received this news from the angel, and she concealed this from everyone
 for all her life until the resurrection of Christ, basically.
 She did not profess that he is a messiah and that this was an immaculate conception.
 She kept this secret, at least until the time when she came out for the public preaching.
 Because otherwise people would not believe, they would kill her with stones, nobody would
 believe that this is from the Holy Spirit.
 And another person was Joseph, who also was righteous and pious, and that's why angel
 came to him several times, and he also concealed this news.
 We see that from the very beginning the coming of the Lord is a great mystery.
 The Lord himself is concealing this mystery from everyone, and we need to think deeply
 why is he doing this, what is he avoiding.
 We will discover that he is avoiding this spirit of the prince of this world.
 He is avoiding the spirit of Antichrist, the spirit of Mammon.
 The Lord could become the king of the universe in material sense.
 He can have all the power you need.
 He can destroy all the enemies right away, all of them die in one moment.
 He can have all the resources, because he created the whole universe.
 He has all the knowledge, all the science, whatever.
 He has all the oil, all the gold, all the diamonds, everything, he can have it and use
 it.
 He has such a mission, he comes to this world, he has the smartest political system, he controls
 everything and everyone totally will worship him, because he will be the ruler, the king,
 nobody can go against him.
 However he didn't do that for some reason.
 Let us think deeply about this.
 Actually that was the temptation of the devil, the devil told him that I can give you the
 power over all the kingdoms, you see their glory, everything.
 You will have all of that, however you need to bow to me.
 We see that this problem of this power, this problem of this influence has something to
 do with the devil, and this mystery that the lord is hiding himself, this humbleness that
 he has, has something to do with fighting the devil.
 And all these examples that I will say, beginning from this first one with the news about his
 birth, all of them tell us about this indicators.
 Another one, let us think, he is born in Bethlehem, but they are traveling from Nazareth from
 Galilee to Bethlehem, then he is born there and then they have to flee into Egypt, they
 have to run away, and then from Egypt later they will go back to Galilee.
 So nobody knows that he was born in Bethlehem, except Mary and Joseph, nobody else.
 And that is why he is called the Nazarene, Christ the Nazarene, and until now the Jews
 they call Christians Nazarenes, they do not want to accept that he is Christ, that is
 why they do not use the word Christian, they use Nazarene in the Hebrew.
 So this hatred, this refusal of accepting him is until now we have it.
 And then that is why we have Caesar's greetings, that is why we have Xmas, not Christmas, Xmas,
 to celebrate some X, this nonsense.
 There is still this enmity against Christ, even his name incites enmity.
 And that was the case back then, that was the case when he came, and he did not let
 anyone know.
 And even the scribes and all the learned men, the high priest, they did not know that he
 was born in Bethlehem.
 He makes it so difficult to find that out, even for them it is a mystery.
 So that is why they say no, you do not fit, because Messiah is supposed to be from Bethlehem
 and you are from Galilee, from Nazareth.
 So we see that the Lord, it seems on purpose, he is concealing everything that is related
 to him being Messiah, even from those scribes and those who can lead all the people of Israel,
 he is concealing that even from them.
 Well, then we can see the star, the star of Bethlehem appears, this star is seen only
 by the Magi, well, they know what it means, nobody else knows.
 So that is why they came to Jerusalem and they told Herod about this star.
 So Herod did not know, he called those scribes and those learned men and asked them where
 his Messiah is supposed to be born, in Bethlehem, he knows in Bethlehem, and he wants to kill
 him, how stupid that can be, you find out where the Messiah, the salvation from the
 Lord is born, because they know he is the chosen one and they see the Bible in Bethlehem,
 and now kill him, how stupid is that?
 We can see how much hatred, how much will of power, control, no, I don't want to give
 over to God, my power, myself, I am God, what else do you want?
 The God of Abraham, Jacob, and at the same time he is building this big temple and improving
 all these buildings and piously praying in those buildings, but when the Lord comes himself
 he wants to destroy him and utterly destroy him, okay, not having mercy on anyone, because
 14,000 babies are killed, he is sending the troops, the most evil troops that he can find
 who have no mercy and they slaughter all those 14,000 babies.
 So we see how the spirit of this world hates the Lord, he hates righteousness, hates humbleness
 and wants something else, power, control, but the Lord says you want power, have it,
 I don't care, and he runs, he goes to Egypt.
 Great humbleness, do we have such humbleness?
 He can destroy Herod, same day, he eats sandwich and he dies, oh, not sandwich, maybe, I don't
 know what he eats, he dies, okay, what else?
 Then when he is born, they come to the city and there is no place in any hotel and he
 is born in a barn, in a dirty stinky barn, okay, where there is all these animals, there
 is this crap all around, okay, and it's dark, it's cold, it's winter, okay, well, it's in
 Bethlehem, so it's not too cold, but still it's cool enough, okay, and he is born there.
 Now we see the mangers, they're so nice, so peaceful, okay, harmony, nice decoration,
 but it wasn't like that, just think about it, if you come to some town and there is
 no place in hotel, where do you stay?
 You will stay, I don't know, in some dump place or in some, I don't know, under a bridge
 or in some hole, I don't know, in some little small place which protects you from rain,
 okay, in some dirty ugly place, that's where you will sleep, and that was the place where
 they stayed.
 So the Lord didn't choose any glorious place and he was born from simple people, they were
 from noble clan of David, king that dated the king, but they were already peasants,
 they were very simple people, and he could be born of the emperor of Rome or China and
 have all the power and all the glory and everything else right away, and so many people would
 come and greet him, but that was not the case, but I think you already know all these things.
 Then when he comes back, they flee to Egypt and then they're coming back to Nazareth,
 and in Nazareth nobody knows what happened, nobody knows about Bethlehem, nobody knows
 that magi came and then these pastors came and they saw angels, nobody knows that except
 Mary and James, and he grows as a simple child, okay, hard toil, okay, he knows what it means
 to be poor, to be hard-working every day, without any special respect, and even people
 often say that maybe you are a bastard, okay, because remember when they said that one son
 of Mary, nobody would say son of Mary, you know, son of your mother in those days, everybody
 would say your father, but they say, okay, we doubt that Joseph is your father, okay,
 we know there's something wrong with that story because he is old enough, so most likely
 you're just a bastard, okay, so he lived with all that humiliation, being the king of the
 universe, being the Messiah, the Word of God, the God himself, one of the Holy Trinity,
 and yet he received all of that, he didn't speak back, and this tells us about such a
 great humiliation and humbleness, humbling himself to not, and when he received all this
 tribulation in the end of his life, that was uttermost humiliation and torture, being betrayed,
 being slandered, being brutally killed, so let us think deeply, what does this tell us,
 how do we need to change, how does it undermine the way we act, the way we think, the way
 we treat people, okay, this has to kill our old self, which is vainglorious, I would like
 people to praise me, I like having some resources for some extra security, I like to have nice
 stable job, nice house, some enjoyment, okay, I want all these things for myself, and so
 on and so forth, this is who we are, okay, let's be honest to ourselves, and the Lord
 is destroying all of that, he says if you want to be my disciple, you will take up your
 cross and follow me, and you'll reject your own life, and then you will gain the true
 life, unless we do that, we will not be among those numbered, we will not be numbered among
 those who are receiver of Christ, receivers, who open their heart, who trust the Lord,
 who trust that he can do the miracles, that he can be born of a virgin, not like the,
 you know, many now who call themselves Christians, but it's only Bible, nothing else, all the
 miracles that we hear in the church, it's all fake, it's all nonsense, you can become
 saints, no, you're all sinners, everybody is sinners, only the Bible is holy, everything
 else is human, it's ugly, it's bad, it's sin, not believing in the Lord, in his almightyness,
 okay, that spirit is the spirit of the antichrist, because not receiving the true Lord, and no
 matter if you call yourselves Christian or not, if you don't have this humbleness, if
 you don't receive the Lord from all your heart, submit your will, and allow him to change
 you from within, give you the new mind, the new way of life, okay, reborn, make you be
 reborn of the Holy Spirit, nothing will help, okay, our old self will continue until it
 dies off without any meaning for the Lord, may the Lord give us such eagerness, such
 faith, may he teach us this humbleness, and guide us through all the, through all the
 delusions of this world, to make us really participants of this truth, and of this mystery
 of the holy nativity of Christ, may the Lord be with you, Merry Christmas, dear brothers
 and sisters, God bless you.
