 To you, brothers and sisters, we have just celebrated the Christmas and the celebration
 will continue until January 13, it will be for seven days.
 And soon after that, on January 19, we celebrate the baptism of Christ, it's also called Epiphany.
 And today, I want to share some insights about the meaning of the Lord's coming.
 In these holy days of celebration, we think deeply about what does it mean.
 And one important insight is coming from the fact that in the past, these two feasts were
 together.
 Actually, in the earliest times, it was just the Epiphany, which was, the feast was important,
 the baptism of Christ and the coming of the Holy Trinity, which came manifest to the world,
 to the faithful.
 Actually, first it was manifest to John the Baptist.
 Well, this manifestation of the Lord.
 And then, it was celebrated together with Christmas, coming of the Lord and the showing
 of the Lord, the manifestation, if you will, of the Lord, of the Holy Trinity were celebrated
 together.
 And only later, it was split, it was separated by several days.
 So that now we have first Christmas and then we have Epiphany.
 But this gives us a very important insight into the meaning of Christmas, into the meaning
 of nativity of Christ.
 You see this manifestation in the Greek is called, in Greek it's called Epiphany, Epiphania.
 It has the root phano, phano is show.
 So phenomenon, phenomenon is something that we see that is shown, phenomenology and stuff
 like that.
 So this Epiphany is the manifestation showing upon.
 And this has a great importance, this manifestation of the Lord to the people.
 You see, before Christ, humanity lived in the world, which had the Lord hidden.
 After the exile of Adam and Eve from the garden of Adam, from Paradise, they were distanced
 from the Lord.
 And this was basically because they themselves, they have disobeyed and they chose to live
 their own life.
 This distancing came from their sin, not because the Lord wanted them to be chased out.
 So this created this hidden state that the Lord became hidden.
 He would not be as directly perceived by man.
 So it became more difficult to talk to him, to pray to him.
 Adam could not have that close communication anymore.
 And later, that's the reason why later generations, they went into idolatry, into worshiping,
 all kinds of things.
 They lost even memory about one God, the Supreme God.
 It remained a little bit somewhere, maybe in India or somewhere else.
 Of course, it was preserved by the patriarchs, by Abraham, but majority of people, they lost
 even the idea.
 But even for the chosen nation, for the people of Israel, of the Old Testament, they were
 still separated from the Lord.
 He was hidden.
 He was in exile for them.
 They were in exile and he was in exile from them and from this world.
 So this created this idea.
 In the same sense, comedian's sins put you into exile.
 For example, Babylon, they got into exile into Babylon because of disobeying the Lord.
 Then they got into exile when the temple was destroyed a second time after they disobeyed,
 they did not receive Christ.
 So anytime this separation from the Lord creates this exile, exile both of humans and of the
 Lord.
 So the Lord himself, he was not manifest.
 He was not open for direct communication, leave alone union.
 So this expectation of the coming of the Lord was the expectation of him manifesting himself.
 I spoke with one Rabbi just not long ago, who is Jewish, I mean Jewish religion, Judaism.
 And they are waiting for another Messiah, whom we believe is Antichrist.
 But anyhow, they now live in the understanding that God is in exile.
 They are still in exile, even though there is state of Israel, but still Messiah didn't
 come so it's exile.
 And God is in exile.
 Well something similar was happening with everyone before Christ's coming.
 The Lord is in exile, he is away, he is hidden, you don't know where he is absent.
 And the Lord's coming changed everything.
 The Lord's coming brings us to the ability to see him directly.
 Because he said, "Who saw me, saw God the Father."
 But the important point is that you need to have faith, and you need to have love and
 free choice.
 And this is why he is hiding himself.
 He is manifesting, he is making it possible for everyone to discover, to see him.
 But you need faith, and you need love and free choice, and you need to be searching
 for the truth, and you will find it in Jesus Christ.
 However there is another manifestation, and we see that everyone who wants to have power
 or influence needs to somehow manifest himself to this world.
 And this is done through various ways.
 Through political rallying, through TV show, show business.
 And those manifestations are basically creating idols.
 And they want to replace the manifestation of the Lord and his truth.
 So this comes from where?
 We can see it a long time, even before Christ.
 Do you remember there was one king who prosecuted the Maccabees in the 2nd century BC?
 That was King Antioch Epiphanos, Antioch the fourth, or Antioch Epiphanos.
 Epiphani is the same root, Epiphanos is the one who was manifesting.
 And in the human culture, in different countries, everywhere, it was the idea that God can manifest
 himself in someone.
 And that way someone is God.
 So basically this Epiphanos, he deified himself, he said that "I am God, you need to worship
 me", and he destroyed the religion of the Jews, and he put idols inside the temple.
 And that's why these Maccabees were revolting, and they were killed brutally, and they were
 martyrs before Christ.
 So he was the predecessor, or pre-image of the Antichrist, if you will.
 And as a matter of fact, any other predecessor of Antichrist has these qualities.
 He is trying to show himself, to become popular, to win your hearts, to have some show, some
 way he will need these miracles, these fake miracles.
 He will need to make people believe, well, not believe, persuaded that he is the source
 of every good thing.
 And we already have these similar things in Lenin, Stalin, Hitler, and other figures who
 came as saviors, and you could see there, when I was young, living in the Soviet Union,
 there were big flags, big posters with these images of Marx, Engels, Lenin, it was like
 gods.
 This is idolatry, because it was presented as they are the saviors, all the hope, all
 the light, everything is there.
 And now we have other stuff, don't think it's only Soviet things, we have all this show
 business, and millions of people go to see some, and they even call them idols, these
 actors, Michael Jackson, Madonna, Lady Gaga, all these clumsy clowns.
 And millions and billions of people go and watch and waste their time embracing all that
 garbage into themselves.
 And basically, that garbage is trying to replace the Lord in your heart, it wants you to have
 that idol instead of Christ.
 And there is this anti-Christian nature to most of those shows and theaters and other
 stuff.
 And of course, in many politicians and many other things, the moment you see something
 is big, you know, manifesting, come, it's me, okay, you have something good here most
 of the time.
 So there is this anti-Christian nature to most marketing, to most propaganda things
 which are out there.
 We need to be careful of that, because that will eventually replace, it prepares the coming
 of the final one.
 And we see how small girls, they watch cartoons about some princesses, and they have this
 mind of these princesses.
 Or they watch something else, and then they have tattoos, and they have this crazy way
 of life, it's reshaping your whole mentality, your whole soul, because now it belongs to
 that idol that you worship.
 So this is the time we live in, and we need to know where it's coming from.
 The central difference, the key difference between manifestation of the Lord, and all
 these fake and anti-Christian manifestations is in the fact that the Lord needs faith.
 He allows those who believe in Him, who are seeking for truth and righteousness, who are
 pious and love the real God.
 And to those people, He's uncovering this mystery, and they can see Him.
 And we can see Him on the holy icons, and we can see God Father.
 When we look at the icon, our spiritual eyes can see God the Father.
 This revelation is given to us.
 So we are living in this new era, when the Lord is manifesting.
 And all the powers of the devil are aimed at replacing, at hiding, bringing as much darkness
 as possible, to make this invisible, so that people cannot see.
 They're distracted by something else.
 When we have this vision of the Lord, His glory, we try to magnify and bring this to
 the world.
 That's why on the Christmas Eve we have a procession of the cross.
 In my previous video, you will see this procession of the cross.
 This is when we as the bride, the church as the bride of Christ, is bringing this glory
 and this joy of the Lord's coming, Lord's nativity, to share it with the world, to manifest
 it to everyone else.
 So this is what the Lord says, "You will be my witnesses.
 You will magnify my glory, my manifestation to others, to everywhere, until the end of
 this world."
 And there is another problem that can happen.
 When we don't have faith, we don't have love to the Lord, but we still make this appearance
 of glorifying the Lord.
 We still do those processions, we still do some nice and fancy liturgical decorations
 and stuff like that, but we already don't have.
 We ourselves, our heart belongs to Mammon.
 What happens then?
 Then we become the Pharisees.
 That becomes what the Lord said, that outside you look so nice, but inside you have all
 kinds of filthiness in you.
 You are like the caskets with the bodies, dead bodies, inside it's all filthy, rotten,
 but outside it looks nice, tombs, as the tombs, the tomb outside is so nice, decorated, but
 inside it's all kinds of filthiness and warmth and stuff like that, and stinky.
 So this is what we become in that case.
 May we not be like that.
 May the Lord's joy be with us.
 May this manifestation of Him be evident, be visible to us, be seen by us, be perceived
 every day of our life.
 This is what I wanted to share with you today on these holidays of Christmas.
 May the Lord be with you and may this manifestation be in your heart every day of this new year
 I mean, we're blessed.
 I mean.
