 Dear brothers and sisters, in the most important prayer, the Lord's prayer, the Lord is teaching us to pray to God, not to lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one.
 So, this is so important for us not to be led into temptation, and also the words of Apostle Paul, that the whole world is sitting in the evil.
 This is telling us that most people, they have been already pulled into this temptation, into this darkness, and for us to escape this darkness would require miracle from God.
 Otherwise, we are doomed to sit in darkness. We are doomed to sit in this, in some form of temptation, in some form of deceit.
 And today I want to say about myth, which is a very popular topic in philosophy, in social thought, in 20th century, in 21st century.
 And this idea of myth is bringing us to some very fundamental question about what is reality, what is real, and what is not real.
 And usually we think that myth is something, is like a fairy tale, it's something made up, some fantasy.
 Well, in reality, it's not a fantasy. And this also brings us to this topic of matrix and living in this fake reality.
 Well, all these topics are related in some sense. And today I want to share with you some thoughts about why we are experiencing now all these wars.
 And just recently, my relative was killed in this war. And this great pain brings me also to consider deeply what does it mean to believe in a myth,
 to be part of this myth, which leads people to death, both physical and spiritual.
 And moreover, these myths, they come at different levels. There is a global level, a society, some group, some target groups, individuals.
 There are different myths, some myths they transcend different levels. But before I get into this, I want to share with you what is the nature of myth.
 What is the core nature and who is producing all these myths? Well, the nature of myth is not that it's just some made up story.
 But this is some kind of interpretation of some physical phenomena.
 For example, in the 20th century, we know this big phenomenon of socialism.
 Of course, the workers, they had many problems. And some people, they came and said, you know who is the reason of your problems?
 The reason is the cause. Are those exploiters, those bourgeois, those capitalists, they exploit you and here is the reasons.
 And they provide a scientific sociology framework that explains all those classes, this fighting between classes and all that garbage that they provide.
 Because it doesn't exist, these systems, they are made up simplifications of something that's happening.
 And it was proven that this doesn't match reality. But it can have an appearance of explaining this reality.
 In some countries, in some settings, it may seem as though this is the reality, this whole story.
 But in reality, it's just a made up interpretation of something that's happening out there.
 And people, they receive this socialism or Nazism or capitalism. Even the word capitalism is not something that is objectively out there. It's also a mental framework that is made up for explaining some phenomena.
 So these different isms, these different frameworks, they created so much pain, so much suffering in the 20th century.
 The First World War was because of nationalism and imperialism and other things which led countries and nations into war, into destroying each other.
 And later we have so many different other examples, up till now, all the way until now. Well, these days you may tell me that, well, you see, now we have learned all those lessons.
 We're not going to become radicalists like those Nazis or something else, those revolutionaries who shed rivers of blood and stuff like that.
 We're not going to do that. We're not going to use red terror or other forms of totalitarian regimes.
 We don't want this. We learned all these lessons. Well, I can tell you that we haven't learned anything.
 There is a misconception. We think that now we believe in money. We believe in physical stuff. We believe that we can buy this, we can buy that.
 We can earn money here. We can have our savings. And this is what is real. And I don't care about politics. I don't care about some social doctrines.
 Just leave me alone. I pay my taxes. I just exist. I want freedom. I want to be who I am. I don't want to be, I don't know, anarchist or socialist or something else.
 Democrat. I don't want all those things. Just leave me alone. Well, if you have this mindset, you are not going to get freedom.
 You will become a spiritual slave. You will be brainwashed and enslaved. And I will explain why.
 Well, first of all, let us see what is reality. Because I just mentioned that different myths, now they are called narratives.
 There was a book by Klaus Rabe, The Great Narrative. And he is telling now everything is going to be about this narrative. This ecology and inclusive capitalism and all other things.
 Digitalization. Well, this is just another "ism". This is just another ideology. This is another form of propaganda. Another myth, if you will.
 The thing is that any kind of myth is related to some real phenomenon. It is just taking some phenomenon and trying to explain it.
 In a comprehensive way. In a simple to understand way. That will be just explaining why this works like this.
 And who are the good guys and who are the bad guys. And it will exploit your own demons, if you will, of selfishness, self-righteousness, self-reliance, self-pity.
 It will exploit self-interest. It will exploit all these interests to make you accept this framework, this myth.
 And another people, they will receive another version of this myth or another myth.
 And they will have a myth that you are the bad guy and they need to go and destroy you.
 And different people will live according to these myths and people will destroy each other.
 And we see tons of examples. Now the world is getting into all kinds of wars.
 Between countries. Civil wars. All kinds of wars. Within families. People divide.
 Even this ideology of consumerism is another myth that makes families divide. And people sue each other.
 In one family they quarrel. Even they kill each other. Because of what?
 Because of some story that if you have a lot of money you will buy this, you will buy something else, you will buy Mercedes Benz and you will show it to your girlfriend.
 And this will make you feel happy and so forth and so on. All this crazy stuff. Just crazy nonsense.
 But people believe this and they spend all their money, all their lives for some fake goal.
 And they are even ready to kill their relatives to achieve that goal.
 So myth is dangerous because it is not separate from reality. It is related to reality. It is some kind of story about this reality.
 But the storyteller is the devil himself. And this is why he is called devil in Greek is Diabolos.
 Diablo. Right? In Spanish. And Diabolos or Diavolos comes from the verb Diavalo.
 Diavalo is to... the direct translation is to slander.
 But it is a wider meaning than just slander. Diavalo is to throw through and Dia is through.
 So it is like throwing meanings from here to there. And this is what they do. They throw a meaning onto something.
 And actually slander by itself is also this storytelling. You say you saw that person. He went into that building.
 Do you know why he goes there? He goes there to meet with some crooks or to do some immoral activities.
 This is why he went into this building. And you believe that and you hate that person and so forth.
 So this is some kind of devil scheme that is working.
 So just to be sure, any myth that is out there is coming from the devil.
 And there is no myth that is an orthodox myth. Even when some people tell you that there is.
 Some people are telling about Moscow the third Rome or some other myth Byzantine or something else.
 Those myths they are also coming from the devil. Even when they call them orthodox.
 And they bring to destruction and suffering millions of people.
 And the Lord Jesus Christ did not participate in that myth that great Israel now has to recapture the promised land.
 And now has to gain the world power. The Lord did not participate in that myth.
 So now we are coming to the question of what is reality? What is reality?
 Because reality is not what you can touch. It is not what you can measure with some instruments scientifically.
 Reality, well these things they are real but just relatively.
 Their importance is not absolute.
 Yes it is physical, it exists, yes it does. But it is not so valuable, it is not so meaningful for the Lord.
 Unless it is related to spiritual reality. And this is where things are important.
 And what is this spiritual reality? It is what we grasp from the Lord himself.
 Take up your cross and follow me. Collect the treasures in heaven.
 Those treasures are much more real than treasures in this world.
 Than a new iPhone or whatever. Mercedes Benz Lamborghini and so forth.
 The treasures in heaven. Those are the reality.
 And this is why the Lord says what to eat, what to drink. Don't worry. Seek first and foremost the kingdom of heaven and its truth.
 And everything else will be given to you, will be attached, will be added on to you.
 So your goal has to be in the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness and the truth.
 And because this is objective, this is the reality itself. Lord, he is the reality himself.
 And of course we are not monotheism, we are not gnostics who rejected this world.
 No, no. We know this world also carries the Lord's blessing.
 However, we need to see the priorities.
 And when we see these priorities in the right way, the Lord will make us avoid all those myths,
 all those fake narratives that are imposed upon us.
 That we see in the news, that we read in the magazines, that every person is carrying in their head.
 Whomever we meet, our family members, they have all these in their heads.
 But we have to be immune from all these fake realities, fake narratives, fake interpretations.
 Because they come from the devil. He wants people to die. He does. He wants their souls to be destroyed.
 He is giving this narrative that a childless family or no family or this sodomite rice or other things, these are fakes.
 Humans are endowed with some basic rice. This is also a myth.
 Of course, when people live by this myth, it becomes reality.
 But this reality is something relative, built upon something relative.
 So it's relative upon relative. It's even less real.
 So let us know about all this deceit that's coming from the devil.
 Let us cling to Christ. Put effort into spiritual life. Emphasize the treasures in heavens.
 And not to depend, not to crave for anything that is relative, that belongs to this world.
 And that makes us slaves, enslaves the whole world and kills, destroys human souls and human bodies and human lives.
 May the Lord help us and give us his blessing and give us his wisdom and keep us in his holiness.
 Amen. God bless.
