 Dear brothers and sisters, all of us, we want to know what is going on in this world, where things are going, what to expect, what to prepare for.
 Well, there are different theories, there are conspiracy theories, there are official narratives, there are a few of them.
 And it may sound very disorienting when we think about all these things, and in reality things are not so difficult, not so complicated.
 However, it is not that simple. Today I want to share some thoughts, some reflections in view of the Holy Gospel, what the scripture is telling us, and the revelation of St. John is telling us.
 Well, we know about the coming of the day of the Lord, which will come upon everyone on this earth.
 In Luke 21 35 we read that this day will come like a net upon everyone who is sitting on earth.
 Well, first of all, we see that this day will be one for the whole world, the final day, the final day of judgment, like the day of the flood.
 And also, we see that it will come upon those who are sitting on this earth.
 St. Gregory the Palamas, he is telling us that those who are sitting on this earth, these words are telling us about the people immersed in the things of this world, who will be attaching their hearts to this world completely.
 And in Isaiah 131 we also read that the Lord will burn all those lawless and sinners with fire.
 And in the Apostle Paul tells us in Philippians 3 20, he tells us that our life is only in the heavens, from where we are expecting our Savior.
 There is this very small minority of people whose hearts will be in heaven till the end. These people will be the holy people, the saints.
 But everyone else will be immersed and grasped by this world. And you can look back 200 years. We see that people who would think about heavens in those days, 200 years ago, and today are much fewer.
 And people don't go to the churches. I've been to many places, the population is 10 times more, the churches are still there, maybe 10 of them in some town.
 But despite the population is 10 times more, those churches are empty. It may be 10 times less people in those churches attending.
 This is telling us that the spirit of Antichrist is already here. It's already coming.
 So this apostasy, this total apostasy which is going on on our eyes, in front of us, in front of our eyes, is taking place.
 However, don't be surprised that something is going to happen and people will depart. People already are far away from God. However, they will be even further away.
 And we are coming there. So we can call this the day of the prince of this world. The day of Christ. This will be the final singularity, this end point of this world.
 We, the Christians, expect the new heavens and new earth. But before that, we know that the Antichrist is going to come.
 And in front of his coming, there will be several revolutions, if you will.
 Already we have many revolutions that took place. We had the bourgeois revolutions in Europe overthrowing so-called democratic revolutions.
 We have the industrial revolution. We have this financial revolution. We have socialist revolutions. We have the sex revolution. We have many religious transformations.
 Some of them are local. Some are global. Some are local and become global. But all of those which I just listed, just those few, generally you can see that each of them promised something good.
 Maybe brought something good. However, it took more people away from Christ.
 The whole society became more and more materialistic and less and less Christian. We can say it that way.
 And today I want to take a look at what happened in the Russian empire, the Bolshevik revolution, this October revolution of Bolsheviks, which basically is a rehearsal of that final revolution of Antichrist, which is coming.
 You can call it inclusive capitalism, fourth industrial revolution, human digital singularity. There are different names and maybe they refer to different realities.
 But generally speaking, that's the direction. That's the direction where the world is moving.
 And in the same way, if you look back maybe 130 years ago, let's look at the work of Kropotkin, Peter Kropotkin.
 He was anarchist, intellectual, who was writing about the society, the problems of the world, of Russia and Europe, the United States in those days.
 And he was writing about the global revolution that is coming.
 Those views, that criticism that he had and all that propaganda that he was producing about how bright is this new future.
 It will be more just. There will be justice. There will be more enlightenment education. There will be no exploitation of one people by another. There will be no class wars. There will be no wars.
 Technology, progress and all those goodies. He was promising.
 And we see what it led to. Yes, there were some technological advances. Yes, there were more stuff produced in the Soviet Union, especially in the good days.
 But all of these came at the expense of many lives which were destroyed. Almost all the Christians were brutally destroyed.
 Everyone else was brainwashed. And people, basically, they had a new idol, this idol. In the capitalist system, we have this idol of money that can buy things, this consumption.
 In the socialist bloc, we have this idol of production, economy, economic growth, produce more, more. No matter what you do, you need to produce, every day produce something to feel that you're valuable.
 This is another idol. So materialistic thinking and this atheism that was coming together with it, all of that came. What Kropotkin wanted came true. Most of it. Not all.
 And basically, this can tell us that before that revolution, there was 100 years of preparation. So where we're at now, we are in this process of preparing for that final revolution of Antichrist.
 And in those days, there were three types of people, generally. The one type was like Kropotkin, was the people who were craving for this new world to come.
 They were doing whatever they could to bring it, to bring it to come true, to make it come true. Majority of people, they didn't care. They just lived their lives. They just went to work and bought stuff for them.
 They were just living their life, spiritually sleeping, I would say. And there were people who were understanding, spiritual people who knew what kind of evil and darkness is coming with this so-called revolution that they were expecting, this global revolution.
 And of course, most of them were killed, were murdered after this happened. So, in the time that we are at right now, similar things are happening. We have three types of people. Some are actively pushing for this new world to come.
 This brand new world. People have different ideas. In those days also, those revolutionists, everyone had his own idea how this new world is going to look like. But in many things, they had many things in common.
 And now, same. People might have little different ideas. Some need more just world. Some need more diversity. Some people need more social justice. Some people, they hope to have more peace and security.
 Different ideas. Some are about technology and advances and all those things. But basically, transhumanism. Basically, all of that is expecting this new world, which already is...
 There is already a picture of this new world. It's not a secret anymore what they're going to build, what it's going to look like. And if we look deeply into it, we will see that it will make people even further away from God.
 For example, just a small example, this digital currency that they want to introduce. The problem with the digital currency is not that you will be controlled. Your behavior, your attitude, your things, your thoughts, your values.
 The biggest problem is not this. The biggest problem is that everything in your life will be materialized. What you think, it will influence your score, your ability to buy, to purchase stuff.
 What you do, what you think, whom you meet, do you do these procedures or that. All of that will be materialized and you will feel it. You cannot avoid it because it will be all linked to your idea, to your digital idea, to your digital paying ability.
 Everything, no matter what you think, whom you talk, what you say, everything. So you cannot avoid it. Okay? Unless you completely cut and you go into forest and I don't know, you do something like that.
 But believe me, not many people are going to do that. And even Christians, they will say, well, I don't refuse Christ. Why should I cut everything? It doesn't mean that I refuse Christ if I accept this digital idea.
 Okay? So most people, they will receive, they will accept, embrace this new world. And this will mean that they're going to be much more materialistic than they are now. The whole humankind. That's just one example of this new world. Why is it going to be more integration?
 And the majority of people now, they don't know, they don't care. They just go by the flow. Okay? And for them it will be just, oh, yes, it's more convenient. Okay, let's just go with it.
 People who are like anarchists of today, who are against all these things, unless they find refuge in Christ, they will be destroyed. Okay? Spiritually, mentally, they will be subdued by these new things because it will be everywhere and everything. Okay?
 So you can be against everything, but you will have to go with it. Okay, no choice. So, and very few now would understand these dangers, all those things which are coming, these spiritual dangers. Okay?
 And they're called crazy. Okay? And many saints, they said that in the days of Antichrist, whoever will speak against it, people think that he's crazy. Okay? He's alarmist. He is paranoid. He is a conspirologist. He is a crazy man. Marginal.
 And of course we can get crazy. Okay? In a bad sense. Okay? We know that we can go crazy. If we are afraid, if we run away from everything digital and things like this.
 This does need a spiritual life. Okay? To remain with Christ, to remain calm, to preserve peace in your heart, to be ready for everything, to be ready to die today. You have to be with Christ.
 This is the answer. This is the answer. And also we need to remember that our spiritual work is not against those people who are pushing for this plan.
 All those bad guys, who conspire against humanity. Okay? Those really evil guys. No, no. The problem is not those guys. The problem is this spirit of apostasy, which becomes prevalent in this world.
 The spirit when people don't care about Christ, about God, about gospel, about anything spiritual. They care about shopping, earning money, pleasures, anything but God. Okay?
 And this is going to get worse and worse. May the Lord help us. May the Lord give us courage. May the Lord give us wisdom and teach us how to pray, how to withstand all this deception, this spirit of deception of Antichrist, which is coming.
 And to be with Christ, to be in the company of the saints, to be among those about whom the apostle Paul says that our life is already in the heavens. Okay?
 So this is the only place for us to be. No matter what happens with us, we will be with Christ in the heavens. Okay?
 Because in those, in these days, which are coming and already arrived, even Christians, many of them are going to be deceived and will slip into the trap of the devil, of the prince of this world.
 May the Lord keep us, keep us free from all this. May he give us the pure heart, the heart which doesn't have these passions, these snakes that torture humans, that we may dedicate ourselves to Christ every day of our life.
 I mean, may the Lord give you strength and blessing. Amen.
