 Dear brothers and sisters, this past Sunday is called the Sunday of the Tall Collector and the Pharisee.
 And this whole week is dedicated to this topic to prepare us well for the Great Land, which is three weeks from now.
 This parable in Luke 18 10 to 14, this parable spoken by the Lord is telling us about what he called the yeast of the Pharisee.
 He told his disciples to beware, you have to beware, of the yeast of Pharisee, which is hypocrisy.
 So there is this great risk to the disciples of Christ in the hypocrisy and today I want to say how it harms every one of us, every Christian and the Church as a whole.
 There are some things to pay attention to.
 Well, first of all, this spirit of Pharisee is based on proudness and vainglory and proudness makes someone blind.
 We see that the Pharisee, even though he came to the Church, he came to the Temple, he believes in God, but his attitude, his heart is very wrong.
 He begins with thanking the Lord, but what is he thanking the Lord for?
 He is not thanking him for great gifts, that he helped him to avoid the evil. No, he is thanking the Lord that he is different from other people.
 Just think about it. He is thanking the Lord that he is different from other people.
 And what other people? These other people who are extortioners, adulterers, thieves, or even like this tall collector back there.
 So we can see that there is this great proudness, there is great filthiness in his soul, because he is accusing everyone, the whole world.
 He says that all the people are bad. Look at me, I am good.
 Well, this is self enjoyment. He is thinking that it is by his own nature that he avoids all this evil that he is listing.
 Of course, it is taught by his nature. It is always a gift of the Lord. Whenever you are able to do some righteous thing, it is always the gift of the Lord.
 He gave you this upbringing, this education. He gave you good examples to follow. And all of this made you do some righteous things.
 It is not his own gift, his own ability. This is madness. Proudness always brings up madness and blindness.
 So we can see this first quality of the Pharisee. He is ascribing to himself some good things.
 And this is every proudness. All the evils in this world, all the wars, all the exploitation, people by people, all the lies,
 all the sins that exist in this world, it is all coming from proudness. From proudness, which brings blindness and madness.
 People are proud about their nation, about their status, about their something else, trying to justify themselves.
 No matter what, justifying themselves. All these rhetorics that you hear about political arguments, it is all about proudness, vainglory.
 I deserve this, I do not deserve that, this and that. But we should not go too far. The biggest problem is us ourselves.
 So we see that because of this proudness, he does not see any spiritual evil. He sees all these evil, he is listening, extortioners, adulterers.
 He is not talking about envy, deceit, greed, vainglory and enmity towards others. He is not talking about these things.
 Because he himself is full of this evil. And he is blind, he does not see it, neither in himself nor in other people.
 So this is complete spiritual blindness. And people who are proud, they are like this. No matter what happens, they are right. They are just.
 So he is justifying himself, he says I am just. If you are just, you do not need the Lord's justification. So after they went out of the temple, the toll collector was more justified.
 His prayer was accepted by the Lord. But the prayer and the sacrifice of this Pharisee were not accepted. And he was not justified, he was condemned.
 If you are not justified, you are condemned. So he justified himself. And this is what we do in our life. Anytime we hear any criticism, we always say "No, you did not understand it in the right way. I am much better than you think."
 This is our reaction. Because we are proud. We have this proudness, we have this vainglory, we are blind. This is the first thing. This self glorification. Exalting myself. This is the first thing about the spirit of Pharisee.
 The second thing, which applies to Christians, to every one of us and to the church also, is that it makes you an idol worshipper. Worshipping idols. You make yourself an idol.
 And you make many other things an idol. For example, you are proud about your nation. You make your nation an idol. You are proud about your country, government. You can make your government idol.
 And make church servant of government. And this is also idol worshipping. You can make bureaucracy an idol. No matter where. Even in the church. Of course, in the government, in the companies, there is this bureaucratic system. It's idol worshipping.
 When you have some rules, guidelines, and you have to stick to these guidelines. And you can kill people. As long as this fits these guidelines.
 This is the spirit of idol worshipping. And when we have this in the church, this is terrible. This administrative structure, hierarchical structure, which loses any love and only has this force. We have to force you to do this and this and this.
 And when it becomes too much within the church, this is idol worshipping. Or when we have this obsession about different orders or some marks of distinction, we give you a special hat as a distinction.
 And then priests will be comparing. Or you have this hat. Or you have this kind of cross. I have this kind of cross. This means that you have more awards than I do. You are more distinguished.
 This is idol worshipping. This is fetish. What is fetish? You make something so important. Or when there is too much emphasis on external stuff. We want to make church beautiful. We want it to represent the kingdom of heaven.
 There is nothing wrong with this. But when this becomes the goal by itself, just to have more, bigger... And we don't care about people. We can use all kinds of ways to reach this goal to make it even nicer, better.
 When this becomes obsession, when this becomes unhealthy, this is where it becomes idol worshipping. We are too much concerned about external thing and not eternal, not love, not the spirit of community within the church, within the parish.
 And also when there is this right worshipping, rights, different rights. This has to be done like this, this, this, this, this. There is procedure. And we are obsessed about this procedure.
 This is why we have this split in the 17th century, when this old right delivers, they split away. Because when there was this reform, liturgical reform, they stick to the letters. This letter cannot be changed. They got obsessed about some rights. And that's why they split away.
 So, this spirit is still with us. We need to be aware. So, the spirit of Pharisee brings this idol worshipping.
 The third thing that is brought by this spirit of Pharisee is accusing everyone else. Finding problem with everybody else. We can see this Pharisee, he is thanking the Lord that he's not like everyone else.
 So, everyone else is bad. So, this is also very common in the church when we always see some enemies outside. It's all those Satanists, or Sotomayans, or this world government, or something else.
 These evil things, these evil people, they harm, they want to persecute the church. They want to, they create all the problems. They seduce everyone. It's all because of them.
 This very gloomy, this spirit of accusation, this spirit of grudges, this is something that is also related to the spirit of Pharisee. So, we need to be careful.
 If we have humbleness, if we have repentance, we see ourselves as sinners, then we would not notice so much sins of others. Even when we notice something, we would not accuse others, we would not judge them.
 We would have compassion. We would be weeping for them. We would be praying for them. But in no way, we would be accusing and judging them, or blaming them for everything.
 So, this is something to be careful, because when we are talking about the church and the spirit of Pharisees within the church, we can become criticized in the church in a not a healthy way, becoming Pharisees ourselves.
 Pharisee always thinks he's the smartest. He's just, he's fine. It's everybody else who has problems. So, this is something to be aware of. This can be present even on the parish level.
 Somebody walks into the parish, you're dressed in the wrong way. Or those children, they're always screaming. That's why we have problems in the liturgy. We cannot have good prayer. It's all those people around me who have some noise, or have some smell, or have something else.
 This is the spirit of Pharisee. And the fourth and the last thing that I want to say today is that our prayer. In the church, very often we are told that it's important to read the prayer in a nice way.
 That it sounds nice, loud. There is a beautiful order. There is no problem with this, but this is not the most important. The most important is what's your heart?
 We see that both the Pharisee and the Northwest, they walked in into the temple. They both went to pray. But the problem is that they prayed. It's all the words that they've said. It's the heart.
 One had this heart that he was putting himself up high, saying that I am great. Look at me. This is boasting. He's actually boasting in front of God.
 Putting it as though it's a prayer, as though it's a thanksgiving, but it's boasting. Very deceitful. And another, he's trying to deceive God himself.
 And the toll collector, he didn't see any achievements, any merits. He only asked for the mercy of the Lord. That he is a great sinner. He put himself, he humbled himself.
 Even though those toll collectors were great sinners, they were cheating their people. They've done so much evil.
 So it's always in the Gospel, you see, the word "sinner" is toll collectors and proceeds. Because this was the most terrible sin.
 But the Lord forgave him all these sins. Because this is what he asked. He asked for mercy. He recognized that in front of the Lord, he is nothing.
 So we need to remember the words of the Lord. He explained clearly, if somebody didn't understand, he explained it clearly.
 Whoever exalts himself, he will be debased, he will be lowered, he will be humbled. And whoever humbles himself, he will be exalted.
 So this person who did not try to justify himself, he was justified. This is the prayer which has humbleness in it.
 Only prayer like this can be received by the Lord. So if we care only about some formal ways, if my prayer is loud, nice voice, stuff like this, the Lord doesn't care.
 He doesn't receive your prayer. And very often we pray into some emptiness. Just to read this book, just say some words towards the wall.
 But there is no point in this prayer. Actually the Lord hates this kind of prayer. The Lord didn't accept the sacrifice of this Pharisee.
 For him he doesn't need all this sacrifice. Take it back. So we need to remember these things. It's the heart that we have.
 Whenever we pray, even if it's a small prayer, before food, after food, what is our heart? Are we just saying it because we're supposed to say it? Or we have repentance?
 We're facing the Lord. We have humbleness. We're trembling in front of the Almighty Lord.
 May the Lord give us such heart, teach us through humbleness, through prayer. May he help us enter into the great land this year with a humble heart.
 May he help us go through any challenge that we might have to go through and make us his true disciples, those who are chosen, those who are children of his heaven, of his kingdom, and not to accuse anyone.
 When we see some issues in the church, within the church, we don't judge. We never have to judge. We just need to correct whatever we can correct within ourselves.
 Avoid mistakes. Even when there is some wrong spirit or wrong attitude that there is, we just have compassion. We just pray for other people. Whatever we can do, we begin from ourselves, changing ourselves.
 We need to awake spiritually, be vigilant, and know that this spirit of Pharisee is like sickness, like a virus. If we are not taking measures, this virus will infect us and we will become Pharisees ourselves.
 Even calling ourselves Christians, ten times Christians, Orthodox Christians, this will not change anything unless we become humble and we become true followers of our Lord, asking for his mercy, for his guidance, for the healing and salvation.
 May the Lord help every one of us, give us his blessing and me. God bless.
