 Dear brothers and sisters, the church is often criticized for obscurantism, for being afraid
 of some scientific, technological knowledge, not advising her faithful to read too much
 books. We remember in the Middle Ages burning books, burning Bruno, Giordano Bruno, and all
 these arguments with the science. And this image we have until now, that these church
 people, they are conservatives, they want you to just read the Bible, just to pray,
 and it needs some clarification, especially now that we have another problem. The criticism
 which I've said is modernism, the spirit of rationalism, that the human mind, intellect,
 can understand everything, find answers to everything. We believe in science, we believe
 in progress, so we don't need some dogma and some stuff like that. But now we came to this
 post-modernism, or maybe post-post, which is turning off human mind, human intellect,
 just go by emotions, just be organic, be natural, and don't think too much. And basically this
 is where the world is heading, that people need to turn off their mind, just listen to
 some media or some bloggers, just gamification of the world, just play, everything is just
 a game, so you just need some basic skills and you don't need to think too much, thinking
 too much is bad for you. And we have the new generation, they're different, they have some
 narrow knowledge about something, even in school and in university, it's now not advised
 to know a lot of stuff, to put it all together. You just need to know your particular field
 and that's good enough. So we have this eclipse of human intellect. So people would be against
 it, of course, they would say no, you need to use your mind, use your brain, don't follow
 along, think before you do, don't become this mass, part of a mass, of a crowd, which is
 just rushing into something, which is good. Human has to have autonomous, ability to think
 autonomously without listening to others, just on his own. However, there is this risk,
 there is this risk that if you rely just on your mind, on your intellect, you will slip
 into big problems. You will slip into big problems, what kind of problems? Well, you
 would squeeze out God from your mind. You would not take anything by faith. You would
 doubt everything. You will slip into this modernist idea that your mind is the rule
 or is the measure of all things. And in the past, this is what happened with the Protestantism.
 They said we don't need dogma, this Catholic Church, we don't have any authority, we will
 understand ourselves. Each and every person will read the Bible and will make his own
 understanding of the Scripture. So, there is no universal truth. And then there came
 this rationalism and just science, we don't need the Bible at all, we just study nature
 and science. And then came this progressism and all the things that people basically departed
 away from faith at all. The society in general went off, became more and more secular. And
 this happened not because of knowledge, not because of study, this came because of problems.
 We read in the Bible, 1 Corinthians 1.19, "The Lord said, 'I will destroy the wisdom
 of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.'" For the
 Lord, the true wisdom is different from the wisdom of people. The true knowledge is different
 from the knowledge of people. St. Clement of Alexandria, he said that the true gnosis,
 the true knowledge comes only together with ascetism. Only when you have the real union
 with the source of truth, with the Lord himself, only then you can gain true knowledge, because
 he is the source of true knowledge. Without this union with him, you will fail. You will
 be misled. You will slip into some fake knowledge, fake logic, fake wisdom. And this is the reason
 why, for example, when the apostle Paul came to Athens, to the place of philosophers, he
 preached to them with great wisdom and insight into their life. Not many converted. Not too
 many were willing to listen about resurrection, other things. Only a couple of them got interested.
 But very often when he came to some village with peasants, with people who don't have
 any education, they would massively receive the word and were willing to follow this path
 to salvation. And from the ancient times, many of the majority of the faithful were
 illiterate, people who didn't have much education. So why was that? Why was that? Is the education
 an obstacle? Well, as I said, it's not the education, it's the proudness. It's the proudness
 which is brought by this human mind when you learn something from the books, you think
 that you understand something, you think that you are something. Okay? And apostle Paul
 also tells us that knowledge makes you arrogant. So this can become an obstacle because of
 proudness. And what is the answer? What is the solution to this problem? Should we not
 use our intellect? Should we just, I don't know, believe someone and just blindly follow
 some tradition? Well, no. You see, every ability that we have, including our intellect, including
 our will, our emotions, okay, all of this is given to us by the Lord. He wants us to
 use our intellect. However, it is the enlightenment coming from him that makes this intellect
 go in the right way. It has to be guided by the Lord, by love. It has to go together with
 our heart, which is directed at the Lord himself. But whenever this is broken, and this comes
 from scholasticism, they have this rationalistic approach, okay, to just some knowledge about
 God split away from spiritual life, from your faith. They split it away, okay? So just bringing
 some concepts, theological formulas. And this made it lifeless, okay? This made it irrelevant.
 And that's why later it was abandoned. All the knowledge about the Lord and all the knowledge
 about life and philosophy, true philosophy, has to go hand in hand with our spiritual
 life, with us, following the Lord. And not just fulfilling some egoistic ambition that
 I want to know more than others, okay? I want to maybe even use others through the knowledge
 that I have. So this is the reason why the church is cautious about knowledge. It's not
 obscurantism. It's not against learning, against knowledge, against mass education, no. But
 it says that there has to be a priority. There has to be, the spiritual life has to be prioritized.
 Your education in terms of upbringing in Christ has to be the condition for you learning something
 else, okay? Then you will have the true understanding where this knowledge fits, how it should be
 used, etc. May the Lord give us this wisdom. May the Lord help us, help us gain the wisdom
 coming from above, from the heavens, and not to be misled by any philosophies or any teachings,
 okay, that are secular, earthly, biased, okay, which made you, which have different spirits,
 which have the spirit of the enemy, the spirit of the spirit of proudness, the spirit of
 corruption, this earthly worldly spirit. May the Lord help us, give us His wisdom, teach
 us His wisdom and guide us through every challenge, okay? We do need to use our intellect to discern,
 to understand what's wrong, what's right, okay, how to live in this world, how to bring
 the message of Christ. We do need to use our intellect, but we have to subject it with
 humbleness to the Lord, to His guidance. Amen. May the Lord give you this wisdom. Amen.
