 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say a few words about terror and terrorist.
 We recently hear about this terrorist attack in Russia, in Moscow, and of course there are much more attacks.
 And there are big instances of terror used for political reasons, even by governments.
 We know about the red terror, about white terror, about all kinds of terror.
 And for us it's more important to understand the spiritual meaning, not just geopolitical or political.
 We need to know how to perceive this as Christians.
 The devil, he is willing to harm the church, he hates the church, he hates all people.
 So for him, the biggest prize is to kill the soul, especially the soul of a Christian, but to kill the body is also important, if he can succeed in that.
 But his bigger aim is not just those people who are killed or injured, his bigger task, goal, is to harm everyone.
 So this is why the effect of these events is much more important, both for him and for us, because it will be harming the society in general, and it will be harming Christians and the church.
 So what is here to be aware of? Well, before we get into it, I want to say just a couple words, because now people are really wondering what's going on, just who has done it, who has benefit from it.
 I don't want to go into politics. I know that behind this is the devil, both those who organize it and those who do it.
 Two things that I can say about just the external events that's going on around it.
 First is that there is a big organization, some big force standing behind this, it's not just a small group of some Islamist, jihadist, or something like that, there is something very powerful standing behind it.
 Another thing is that this event, we will see after math, it is a part of a bigger game, there is some narrative, some project that the prince of this world is accomplishing, and this is a part that was needed to accomplish that plan.
 So we need to see what will happen later, and be ready.
 So these two things, I don't want to say more, I don't want to say some guesses about who is behind it and whatnot, but these two things I think are quite evident.
 Now the more important is the spiritual implications. Well, first of all, we need to say that people who have done it, they are practical satanists, they are driven, they are inspired by the devil himself, they become like instruments of the devil.
 This is one thing. Another thing is that there are several goals that attacks like this have.
 One goal is always terror, fear, to make everyone afraid, afraid of what will happen tomorrow, change their plans, afraid of each other.
 And of course, eventually chaos creates need for some earth savior who will come and say, I give you safety, I give you this, I give you that, you need to comply to some things, so this is a trap.
 Another task that it's pursuing is hatred. The people who have experienced this, who see what's going on, they will hate someone, they will hate, some people will hate those ethnic minorities who are doing it,
 some people will hate, I don't know, some geopolitical people or they will hate government, it depends who they would think is standing behind it, they would be hating, it would be much more hatred and enmity.
 This will create in people and even in Christians despondency and some lack of trust in the Lord, some grudges why the Lord allows this to happen.
 People don't want to pray, don't want to fast because no need, we're fasting and things like this are happening. This is slander from the devil that will try to persuade people to go away from the Lord, to have some disbalance in their spiritual life.
 Instead of focusing on prayer and fasting they would be searching for some news, they would be going around talking to people about this and that, there will be chaos, this is why we are praying for the peace in the world and in our hearts.
 So these are very evident goals, there are other goals, as I said there is a big plan going on, there is this plan of the prince of this world to subdue the whole world, to put shackles on all the people, to put them in trap, but there is also the plan of the Lord, the plan of salvation which is also developing.
 What happened these few days ago is evidently some part of the plan of the devil and we can say, this is the third thing which I want to say about spirituality, is that in Revelation we read about the beast coming out of water and his wound is healed and he has the power to do many things, to harm people in this world.
 And this beast of course will be eventually received by everyone as a savior, so he will pretend to be nice, he will pretend to bring peace and prosperity and safety and many other things.
 Human rights and economic benefits and everything else, he will be trying to play a good guy, but this is now that we can see his real face.
 What happened in this terror attack, when you look at this fear in the people, they met the devil, they met Satan himself in this experience.
 And this is the real... he's removing his mask. So sometimes this mystery of lawlessness, about which Apostle Paul said in his second pistol to the Thessalonians,
 this mystery of lawlessness sometimes unmasks, comes up and we can see what it is.
 It wants to accomplish something so it needs to go out of this from concealing itself. So this is an incident of this lawlessness coming out.
 So we need to learn. This is a good opportunity to see what it is, what's the nature of it, how they do it, what's their intention, how deep is this evil that's there.
 Not to have some rosy ideas about prosperity, democracy and many other things. We need to know the enemy in his face.
 This beast. And basically the people who are doing it, they have the philosophy that evil is just a means for achieving something good.
 This philosophy comes from the devil himself. And all these dualist things, that people say, oh, good and bad, it's just two sides of the same thing.
 You have light, you have shadow, you have cold, you have hot. Sometimes you need to be bad, evil, to accomplish something good later.
 So this Taoism or other dualism, occultism in Kabbalah, in many schools of thought, this idea is there.
 And this exact idea that is behind what they are doing. They are justifying this by saying, well, we have this goal, we need to do this, this, this, this.
 Otherwise, we cannot achieve it. Maybe for, I don't know, how many years. So we have to do it. And human lives, it's nothing for them.
 Now, having said these things, I want to make a reflection on the role of the Lord and His mercy.
 Because many people are now complaining, saying, well, how would the Lord allow this?
 Other people, even some Christians, you know, they say crazy things. They say, well, you see, during the great land, they went to see a concert, and this is why they were punished by the Lord.
 So, they are really sinners. That's why they are punished. This is a great, this is Satanism, actually, when people say things like this.
 And this needs some explanation. Indeed, we find, both in the Bible and in the Holy Fathers, that some misfortunes that happen with you,
 say you fall down, you break a leg, that this may be because of your sins, so that you can wake up and repent, or some sickness or something else.
 But, the Bible and the Father say that this interpretation applies only when you apply it to yourself. Only to yourself. When this happens with you, this is the proper way to think about it, but not with someone else.
 You cannot say, oh, you see, this happened with you because you are a sinner. This is forbidden. And the Bible has an answer, what should be your reaction when you see something bad happening to someone.
 What is this reaction? The Lord tells us that we need to cry with those who cry. We weep with those who weep. We have compassion and pain as though it's our own pain.
 And we help as much as we can to those people who suffer. And we never judge, and we never say that, okay, this is because of your sins, because our sins are much bigger. By repenting, we put ourselves worse than anyone else.
 When we acknowledge that we are sinners, we are the biggest sinners, the worst sinners of everyone else in the world. This is how we have to perceive ourselves.
 So, never should there be any thought like that. I'm fine because I'm not a sinner, but he has a problem because he's a sinner. This is the greatest mistake. So, this is a very wrong view, and the question is still there.
 Why the Lord allowed this to happen? Well, we should not try to find in everything that happens something of a providence or punishment coming from the Lord.
 The Lord allows people to do many things. That's why there is so much evil in the world. He does not stop every time somebody kills someone. You see Hitler, he killed tens of millions of people, and the Lord didn't stop him from doing that.
 He allowed this much evil to be done, and it's much more than what happens in those individual terror attacks.
 In the process, many righteous people also suffer, and in the Revelation we see that some souls of the righteous who were murdered are praying to the Lord and asking why you still allow these evil people, why you don't send your retribution to these people.
 He says wait until your brothers and sisters in the church will accomplish the construction. They're still working, so it's not time yet for those retributions.
 The Lord himself fell victim to the forces of evil when he was killed and crucified. In the same way all the martyrs were killed, and it doesn't mean that the Lord was not with them.
 This is when he was with them. When they went to their own Golgotha, they were strengthened by the Lord, so that they can do this testimony of their love to the Lord until the end.
 And a similar thing happens with many people who fall victim in those terror attacks. So we must not judge people by no means, and it is important to distinguish people and sin or wrong practice.
 So, what can be said about the event itself? The event itself and the place where it took place looks like Babylon.
 Those big concert halls, they carry the spirit of Babylon with them. Big shopping centers, big movie theaters, big entertainment theaters, casinos, places like this.
 They are places where most people would be worshipping Mammon. That's why they are created, they're made so big. They have all these hundreds of thousands of useless stuff to trick people, to mislead people, to make them buy stuff that they don't need, to enjoy stuff that they don't need.
 This is the culture of Babylon. The increasing supply of all kinds of stuff that people also will be demanding more and more, and be more and more embraced into this physical world without God.
 But this doesn't mean that everyone who goes there is a worshiper of Mammon. Even Christians, Orthodox Christians, and I myself included, would be sometimes going to such places, to places like shopping centers or concert halls.
 I try to go there only when I have to. I just need to buy some stuff, or I need to do a mission there. Only when I have to. Not to make it some part of my life.
 I like walking in the shopping and going there for relaxation and stuff like this. So, not being dependent, not being attached, not having your heart attached to that kind of atmosphere, to that kind of spending your time.
 So, we can say that through events like this, the Lord also shows, well, not the Lord shows, but we can draw this lesson from this event, that places of Mammon is not, or entertainment is not blessed by the Lord.
 The event, overall events or places like this, especially during the Great Land, this happens during the Great Land, so we can draw this meaning, this lesson out of it.
 But this doesn't mean that everyone who went there were sinners and they were punished by the Lord. These are two different things.
 So, we should not be attached to anything that belongs to Mammon.
 And most places out there, in this society, in this civilization that we live in, they are places of Mammon. And we should not have any attachment to those places. And during the Great Land, we are practicing to deattach ourselves, to get rid of all the passions that we have.
 We recall the Noah, the Ark of Noah. And when the rain came, which brought this flood, it was raining 40 days and 40 nights.
 And now we are going through a 40-day land, Great Land, to get rid of every sin, of every passion, everything that brings corruption to our souls and to our bodies.
 And this Ark of Noah was raised by the waters of flood because it was sealed from inside.
 And this sealing between this wood, these logs that it was made of, this sealing means that we have to seal our soul from any evil that may come into our soul, to have the temple of our soul holy and pure and clean.
 And only then, the water will not penetrate and the Ark will not drown. And we will be arising, we will be coming up.
 These waters were coming and this Ark was coming up. So during these 40 days, we have to ascend to the Lord. Our soul has to ascend to the Lord. This is the task.
 May the Lord give us such eagerness, give us the spirit of prayer, of fasting, of sacrificing our old self, crucifying, mortifying our passions, desires, wrong thoughts,
 to crave for the spiritual food, for the spiritual joy that we gain through abstaining from physical joys and pleasures.
 May the Lord help us and give us His blessing and protect, preserve all of us both from attacks like this and from all these plans that Mammon wants us to be part of.
 We need to know that we should not go by the flow, not trust too much in those newspapers. They will have these narratives and they will put you into this narrative.
 We don't accept this narrative. This is why I don't talk too much about the why and all this geopolitical stuff because all of that is secondary and we have to be immune from involvement into these narratives.
 May the Lord give you joy and blessing and peace into your hearts. I mean, God bless.
