 "Dear brothers and sisters, during the Great Land we breathe some fresh air, our soul is
 enjoying the blooming, it's reviving because of fasting, because of prayers, because of
 spiritual reflection, so we can use the metaphor of going somewhere on a field trip or to some
 picnic, somewhere sightseeing, and when you come back from these natural places you feel
 all this noise of the city, you feel all this technology and all these difficult complicated
 relationships between people, you feel all this burden of the civilization, especially
 this spiritual burden that is full of passions, that is full of some anxiety and all kinds
 of noise and useless running around. In the same way, when we go through the Great Land
 we have the feeling that this world is crazy. When we encounter this Babylon, this world
 that is obsessed about some useless things, people are quarreling for some stupid things,
 people have values, we see that they are empty, people are blinded by all this dissection
 of this world, we gain this feeling, especially during the Great Land. We should, we are supposed
 to gain this feeling because our home, we found it somewhere else, our home is with
 our Heavenly Father and this world has nothing that is really exciting for us, there is nothing
 in this world which makes us motivated just to pursue for the sake of itself. This is
 a different spirit. After having this fresh air, our soul can feel this dirty odor of
 this sewage that is in this fallen world and where you, it's so much more difficult to
 find the Lord. The Lord is everywhere, but when all around you is created by mammon for
 the sake of effectiveness, increased consumption, you feel it everywhere, you feel it in the
 shopping mall, you feel it in all the advertisements, you feel it on radio, TV, music, you feel
 it everywhere. So, we need to see in ourselves the old man, this old man who is not willing
 to fast, who feels that it's a burden and this same old man is giving us all kinds of
 fears. Today I want to say a few words about the fear of the Jews, the fear of the Jews
 which we read about in the Acts of the Apostles and also in the Gospel. In the Gospel when
 the apostles were praying in the small room, in the small house and they were afraid to
 go out, this was before the news of resurrection, they would not go out because of the fear
 of the Jews, they were afraid of these Jews, the leaders, not regular people, the leaders
 who said we will cut you out of the synagogue, this Jesus of Nazareth, he is a bad guy, he
 is a criminal and this is why everyone who is associated with him has to be chased and
 he will also be persecuted and so forth. Well, this fear is still with us. This fear is related
 to many things. In the economy, all these fears, there is going to be a market crash,
 there is going to be another pandemic, there is going to be some collapse, there is going
 to be some immigration crisis, there is going to be this that robots will come, they will
 take your jobs, some political parties will come and so on and so forth. There is always
 some anxiety, always some uncertainty. This is the spirit of mammon, this is the spirit
 of Babylon. There is always, there is no peace, it's always troubled. And of course, people
 who don't believe in God, they are afraid of one kind of things, Christians, Orthodox
 Christians are afraid of other things, maybe people are afraid of some control, there will
 be some new measures or there will be new QR codes on your forehead and you will be
 brainwashed, everybody will become like a zombie. There is some electronic digital concentration
 camp, there are fears coming from that side also. Well, a Christian, he would be beware,
 the Lord said beware of the men because they will take you and bring you to synagogues
 and to trials. They will be beating you and killing you for my name's sake. So he said
 beware, don't have rosy feeling that everything is going to be fine, no, they have persecuted
 me, they will persecute you. They hated me, they will hate you. So this is something to
 beware of but not to be afraid of. And a Christian, well, the worst thing they can do to anyone
 of us is to kill us. Of course, they can kill our soul but that's another thing. We have
 to be afraid of falling away from the Lord, betraying the Lord but not to be afraid of
 somebody killing us or torturing or trying to brainwash us. We are not afraid of that.
 We have to be aware of that, we have to know what's going on but we should not be obsessed
 and afraid of anything because with the Lord, no matter what happens, the nuclear war, whatever
 happens, if we are with the Lord, there is nothing to worry. And once you have this deep
 peace, profound peace in your heart, you will be ready to face anything. And you will have
 a clear mind to distinguish what is right, what is wrong. The Lord will give you the
 right judgment but this comes only if we love him more than anything else. So now during
 the Great Land we learn to kill our old self who is afraid, who is unwilling to fast, who
 is attached to this earthly stuff. We are killing this old self. We need to overcome
 this fear. Well, I went to China for some mission trips and I can tell you that even
 Christians, even Orthodox Christians, are very much afraid of the government. So in
 those authoritarian countries, in Russia, in many countries that there is this authoritarian
 dictatorship or some kind of government that is very strict, in China is much more strict
 even than Russia. But everywhere it's getting to be more and more radical. And people are
 afraid. People are afraid to speak, they are afraid to be put to prison or this social
 rating will deprive you of your rights. People are afraid. What is this? This is the fear
 of the Jews. Of course it's not Jews everywhere. Now they use these networks and these algorithms
 to see who you are, what you are doing, where you are going, what you have in your mind.
 But the same effect is the fear of the Jews. It's the same fear that the early church
 was facing. And once the apostles received the Holy Spirit, they had no fear. They knew
 that there is danger out there, but they would not have any fear of that. They would be outspoken
 and they would dare to speak publicly about the truth, to do this testimony for the Lord.
 So this is one thing. We need to be aware of this fear. Another thing is the so-called
 Judaization of Christians and of the whole world. Now they are speaking about Judeo-Christian
 civilization. This is funny, Judeo-Christian. This ecumenist spirit is destroying every
 religion and it all becomes religion of Mammon. And that's why it's just mixing everything
 together. And I have a video on Daedalism as a new religion and many saints are telling
 us that this will happen. St. Ephraim the Syrian and others, recently Fr. Serafin wrote
 about it extensively. And we need to be aware that this thing is happening. But in a nutshell,
 what it is, is the Judaization of not only Christianity, but every culture, every religion.
 Judeization, that's how it's called. And it's not in the sense of the Old Testament Judaism,
 which is Judah. Jude means one who glorifies God. No, the Judaism, the Talmudic Judaism
 is another religion. And it's against God, because they were against the true Messiah.
 They wanted an alternative Messiah, who is the Antichrist. That's whom they wanted. So,
 after rejecting Christ and after destruction of the temple, that was finished. The Old
 Testament Jewish religion was over. It's finished. And the one religion that was formed step
 by step after that, in a nutshell, is the Antichrist. It's the religion of the Antichrist
 in a nutshell. And the God is the Mammon. The God that is worshipped in this religion
 is Mammon. We need to be clear on that. And this penetrates everywhere. And they themselves
 would be calling those who receive the spirit of this Mammonism, they would call them "Mityagdim".
 Mityagdim means those, literally, the Judaism, those who are like Jews, those who have the
 likeness of Jews in how they live, in what their values are. And what these values are
 is you worship Mammon. Prosperity, self-success, economic flourishment, economic growth or
 bright future in the socialist ideology, any kind of utopianism. All religions that are
 in apostasy, that are in one way or another, they reject the loving God, the true God.
 All other religions and even Protestantism and Catholicism, they went away from Christ.
 So this is the source of Judaism of Christianity. And even within the Orthodox Church, we have
 this Judaism heresy in the 14th and 15th century in Russia. It was quite bad. It was even some
 hierarchs of the church. They were crypto-Judaists. You can read more about it. But this spirit
 is still with us today. As long as we care about earthly comfort, safety, safety nets,
 prosperity, sufficient savings, enough for retirement, for this... Basically, we already
 gave up to Mammon. Mammon is ruling our hearts. We are the crypto-Judaists. All the humanists,
 all of those who are speaking for just mixing, melting all religions together, they are crypto-Judaists.
 This is all maniac team. They betrayed Christ. They are apostates. We are apostates. Don't
 speak about other people. We don't accuse anyone here. I'm speaking about myself. To
 the extent that I still depend, that there is still this old me, a life within me. Every
 time I sing, I betray Christ. I worship Satan. I serve Mammon. So let us be critical about
 ourselves first. And then we'll understand what's going on in this world. So we don't
 want to be maniac team. We don't want to be maniac team. Salt which is not salty. We're
 not Christians anymore. So what is the solution? There is only one choice. Well, two choices.
 Either you go the way of maniac team or you become a martyr, a Christian martyr. There
 is no other option. I just want to live as I live. You become maniac team. Just as simple
 as that. So if we want to follow Christ, the holy fathers tell us that we have to be ready
 to sacrifice our life. At least in our mind, we have to make this decision that I would
 want to sacrifice my life for Christ if there is such an opportunity. I will not be looking
 for this opportunity. I will not be asking terrorists to come and kill me, but I would
 be willing to sacrifice my life for Christ. In reality, we might run away if something
 like that happens. There is danger to our life or even to our property or to our freedom.
 We might betray Christ. We might say, yes, everything, whatever you want. But at least
 in our mind, we have to make this decision that I would want to... I say, yes, because
 most Christians, they would come to the church to have some feeling of peace or to have some
 problems resolved, to find a good job. They pray to God. But when you tell them about
 martyrdom, they say, sorry, no, no, no. I just, I want to enjoy this life. I don't want
 to die. Sorry. That's not why I came here. Well, excuse me. If you are not willing to
 die for Christ, you came to the wrong address. Because the Lord said, take up your cross
 and follow me. Follow me where? To Golgotha, where I will be nailed to the cross. So you
 have to be ready and willing to be nailed to the cross. Well, not really willing, but
 at least agreeing to that. So why do we don't have so many martyrs and saints our days?
 Okay. Compared to the early church, the church, which was much, much smaller than the church
 today, I'm talking about the church, the Orthodox church. I'm not talking about other denominations.
 Well, this happens because of this Judaization. Yes. This happens because we don't have this
 decisiveness. We are not willing to be martyred. In Psalm 25, we read, the Lord will give you
 according to your heart and everything that you want, you will accomplish. If we don't
 want to be martyrs, we will not be martyrs. If we don't want to be saints, we will not
 be saints. Okay. You have to crave for that. And you would ask me, well, if I don't have
 opportunity to become martyr, well, the Great Land teaches us to become martyrs every day.
 Martyr means witness of Christ. Someone who makes testimony. For what? For the love of
 Christ. How Christ loved people. How we love Christ. And our sacrificing, our passions,
 our habits, our old self. Okay. For the sake of Christ. And this is what we do during the
 Great Land. And this is, okay, daily martyrdom. Okay. Maybe small, but it has the same nature.
 So all our life has to become martyrdom. Sacrificing, okay, our flesh, our old self for the sake
 of Christ. Getting rid of our dependency on comfort, on, I don't know, many things that
 we are attached to. Our heart is attached to tasty food, to communications, to everything.
 And that's how Babylon is going to grasp all the people and make it happy slaves. You will
 be happy and you will know. You will owe nothing and you will be happy. Why? Because you will
 become mediating. You will not be Christians. Maybe only nominal and this is nothing. Okay.
 Which is nominal Christians is nothing. So let us make this decision, make it very firm
 and be cautious of it and have the deep willingness to sacrifice our life for Christ. We are now
 repenting about death because the Great Land is our experience of death. Okay. We're facing
 death during the Great Land. It's like the end of life. Okay. Like second coming. Okay.
 We are going through hell during the Great Land because we are repenting and the sinner,
 he would feel that he is worthy of hell. Okay. That's why in the church we have dark, we
 don't have so many lights in the church during this time. Okay. This is all because of that.
 Because of our readiness to die. In order to live the new life in Christ dies. It's
 not me who dies, it's my old self who dies. And this earthly life that can end anytime.
 And we are in the church praying that the Lord may give us a Christian end to our life.
 Blameless, shameless. Christian end. So that we can glorify him through our life and through
 our death. How we died. There was triumph for all the martyrs because that was the moment
 of the manifestation of their ultimate love to God. They loved him till the end without
 any reservation. And only like that we can enter into the kingdom of heaven. There is
 no other way. Some people are hoping to become better teachers or better parents or better.
 Some people are thinking about nationalism, their ethnicity to become a better... I don't
 know what's your ethnicity. Okay. Well, I can tell you all of that can be achieved only
 when you become a good Christian. If we are true Christians all the best things in our
 soul will wake up. All the best talents. If you want to be a great writer become a great
 Christian. If you want to be a good father become a great Christian, a good Christian.
 Okay. And that's how you avoid that corruption that's coming with this Judaization, with
 this corruption, this filthiness. Okay. This earthly decomposition. Okay. That's brought
 by this proud and selfish and arrogant merging with mammo, merging with this world and all
 that it has to offer this stuff that corrupts, that will be destroyed, that has no value
 in the eyes of the Lord. And people are wasting their life, wasting their energy, destroying
 their families for the sake of this earthly filthy stinky world. Okay. May the Lord help
 us become better Christians. May he grant the crowns of martyrs to those who crave him
 the most or crowns of saints. Okay. And protect us from anything that corrupts our soul. Everything
 else is nothing. Okay. Every other challenge is just making us better. So let us not be
 afraid of any crisis, catastrophe, war, I know, anything. And the Spirit of the Lord,
 his peace, the joy of salvation, the joy of resurrection, this feeling of his kingdom
 that is coming, be with every one of us. I mean, God bless. And through us the blessing
 will come upon the people around us. I mean, God bless.
