 Dear brothers and sisters, we celebrate the annunciation of the Most Holy Theotokos.
 This is a very bright and joyful feast, which is so important that very often we don't understand
 the significance of this feast.
 This is the celebration of the Lord's incarnation, His coming to this world.
 And this is the mystery of piety, about which Apostle Paul is talking in his epistles, that
 this mystery of piety is the purpose why this world exists.
 This is the basis of all world history, from beginning, from the creation till the end.
 It's all about the Lord's coming to this world, to save us, so that every human being can
 come from where he is now, in his fallen state, to the perfection, to the likeness of the
 Lord.
 And this task overthrows all the evil, all the darkness of this world.
 But still there is so much darkness, so there is a need to go deeply, to study deeply this
 world, and in the following videos I will develop this topic of the Revelation that
 takes place in our world right now, of these prophecies of Revelation.
 And the book of Genesis, as the first book of the Bible and the book of Revelation, they
 are keys to each other, they are explaining each other, and we can learn a great deal
 about the Revelation if we look to the book of Genesis.
 Well first of all I'll tell you that regarding this event, this mystery of Annunciation,
 we read in the Luke chapter 1 verse 26 to 38.
 So if you are not familiar or you want to refresh, this is where you find it.
 Luke chapter 1 verse 26 to 38.
 Now we are going to look at Genesis, because we need to understand how is this related
 to the snake and to the deception coming from the devil.
 In Genesis 3.15 we read that the Lord is talking to the serpent, to the devil.
 He says "And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her
 seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bite his heel."
 Well, the Holy Fathers explained to us that the seed of woman, generally, woman, just
 female, will bruise the head of the serpent, and this female will be the Theotokos, the
 ever-virgin Mary.
 Because the seed of woman is of course the offspring, who is born of this woman, but
 in the Bible we read only these genealogies that a man gives birth to another, to some
 other people.
 So this birth happens through the male side.
 It's the seed of a male that gives birth to someone else, to his children.
 But here we read about the seed of a woman, so female, which is already telling us about
 the Theotokos and this mystery of annunciation.
 Of course this place has other meanings, has many meanings, but today we won't talk about
 other meanings.
 Let us focus on this meaning that the Lord will come and he will bruise the head of the
 snake of the serpent.
 And this we read in Revelation that the beast will come out of the water and one of the
 heads of the beast has a wound.
 This wound means that he was wounded by the coming of the Lord to this world.
 So regarding this serpent, let us read Isaiah, prophet Isaiah chapter 27 verse 1.
 Isaiah 27 verse 1, this is where the Lord is telling us about this serpent, that this
 serpent or leviathan, which is sometimes translated as crocodile.
 Well, it's not crocodile, it's with a symbol of crocodile, actually it's a serpent with
 legs who represents the devil.
 So let's read Isaiah 27 verse 1, in that day the Lord with his sore and great and strong
 sword shall punish leviathan, the piercing serpent, even leviathan, that crooked serpent,
 and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.
 So, these are the same characters, the dragon in the sea, leviathan, this serpent, this
 serpent is described as running serpent and crooked, that he is winding back and forth.
 So with his sore he is going to pierce him.
 What is this?
 Others explain to us that this is the coming of the Lord, the incarnation of the Lord,
 which opens up the heavens, and it's breaking this protection that leviathan has.
 Before we talk about these heavens being closed, before we talk about what does it mean in
 our world, let us also read about what the Job says, the book of Job, Book of Job chapter
 41, 15 to 17, this is telling us about the skin, or the scales of leviathan, his scales
 are his pride, shut up together as with a closed seal, one is so near to another that
 no air can come between them, they are joined one to another, that they stick together,
 that they cannot be sundered.
 No man can sunder those scales, no man can pierce them with any weapon, this is spiritual
 warfare that we are talking about, this is the warfare we are going through right now
 in this great land, and only the Lord is able to crush the head of leviathan, he is able
 to pierce this leviathan through his scales.
 What are the scales of leviathan?
 These are the sinners, the people who are sinning, and when they have common sin, they
 stick to each other, they are glued to each other through their sin.
 You can be talking about some bureaucratic system that has no human, nothing human to
 it, that everybody is just covering another one and it's all by instruction, by protocols,
 algorithms, algorithms that will be deciding, ruling everything, and this is going to be
 found anywhere, you can find it in a mafia, when they cover each other, you can find it
 in those places where people have sinned, everybody is covering each other, holding
 to each other, you can find it anywhere, in nationalism, in the revolution, almost anywhere
 you can find it, even the army which is marching like this all together, they are stuck to
 each other, you cannot kick anyone out, nobody can come out of this marching in the army,
 so they are so much glued to each other that even the air cannot penetrate.
 The air that cannot penetrate means when you are preaching to them, when you are telling
 to them to repent, or you have some argumentation about some reasoning, they will not listen,
 because there is no conscience anymore, they have one protocol, one system, and this sin,
 this passion is holding them there, and the heaven is blocked, they don't see heaven,
 so truth doesn't penetrate, only the Lord can break this, only his grace can break this,
 and we need to know that this Leviathan is not somewhere out there, it's in every one
 of us, that's the dangerous part, the scary part, so we have to kill Leviathan in ourselves
 when we stop passions, when we stop bad habits. So what examples do we find? Having this power
 of Leviathan exerted in this world is found in such things as not believing in Christ,
 people are not willing to listen about Christ, about repentance, self-sacrifice, virtues,
 no they are stuck to something else, to some new age, maybe atheism, Buddhism, Hinduism,
 Judaism, Islam, something else, they are blinded by this sin, this deception that is ruling
 in that community, and many people who don't care about religion, they serve mamma, they
 serve mamma, and they give money, pleasure, career, self-satisfaction, many many things,
 they are blinded by this, they don't see heaven, for them the heaven is what they are craving
 for, this is their heaven, the true heaven is blocked, as it was blocked for those who
 killed Christ, these Pharisees, these Sadducees, these scribes and high priests, they believed
 in the same God, now it's so popular, this ecumenism, ecumenism is also this Babylon,
 they were believing in the right God, in the right Bible, they prayed, they kept commandments,
 they were trying to do everything according to the law of God, but they became enemies
 of God, and they killed him, they killed Jesus Christ, and they wanted another Messiah,
 the Antichrist, so you can become servant of mamma even when you believe in God, and
 practically speaking that's what happens with most of us, and well, with the faithful, with
 people who try to go to church, who try to pray, the more usual problem is the despondency,
 despondency when we lose trust in the Lord, when we feel that he's not going to help us,
 there is nothing good to expect, we complain about ourselves, about this world, it's called
 spiritual suicide, when people listen to the slander of the devil about God, so they become
 slaves of the Vietnam, and they also have the heavens which is blocked from them, okay?
 And now, speaking about Catholicism and Protestantism, we also can see that this is a great success
 of the Vietnam, who is blocking the heavens for them, because in Catholicism they listen
 to the Pope, they don't need to listen to the Holy Spirit and follow Jesus Christ, they
 follow the Pope, and that was very evident in the Crusades, when they went and they killed
 so many innocent people, and even Christians, they destroyed this Byzantine in those days,
 which was Christian, great Christian empire, they just ruined everything, so this spirit
 of Antichrist came out, they were driven by Antichrist, and also this Catholic spirituality
 in this fantasies, these fantasies, they're blocking the true Lord, or this scholastic
 theory about God, which is also blocking the real God, well, with the Protestants, it became
 even worse, with Protestants, they created this idea that heaven is far away, because
 there is no sacraments, there is no presence of God in this world, only the Holy Bible,
 but nothing else is possible, no grace can change you, so there is no saints, there is
 no Divine Liturgy, there is no holy icons, there is no holy relics, there is no holy
 water, no consecration of anything, there are no priests, there are no need for monasticism,
 for prayer, for this spiritual ascetic life, no need, so what do you need to do?
 Oh, you just need to care about this earthly stuff, only you need to build hospitals, you
 need to build schools, and most importantly, you need to do business, to glorify God you
 need to do business, so everything is in this world, forget about heavens, heavens is something
 given, Hallelujah, you are saved already, forget about it, just care about this world,
 so this is why this empire of Babylon, this modern Babylon, with the Serbian Mamon, was
 developed first and foremost in these Protestant countries, the United Kingdom, the United
 States and others, because for them it became much more evident that this is what you need
 to do, just do business, and we have all these bourgeois revolutions, overthrowing monarchs,
 we have industrial revolution, capitalism and socialism, it all was originating in those
 countries and then everything was just expanded globally, so this is what we have, this is
 what we have, we have this Leviathan, this new Babylon, trying to conquer all the world,
 okay, I will talk more about Babylon, about the beast, but we need to know that for us
 the task is to see the true heaven, to crave for the true heaven, the Lord said, first
 and foremost, seek the heaven and its truth and its righteousness, and everything else
 will be given to you.
 During the Great Land we repent deeply, to see that we are still far away from the heavens,
 to have the need for the Holy Spirit to move us towards the heavens, only when we understand
 that we are still sick and fallen, and there is still so much that needs to be done, only
 then we will pray with tears of repentance and ask for the Lord's salvation, for His
 grace to come down upon us, to enlighten our mind, to heal our heart, to teach us to pray.
 May the Lord's grace humble us beyond every one of us, we are thankful to His Mother,
 who through accepting His will and willing to sacrifice, to accept any torture, any pain
 that will be brought with this choice, she agreed to follow God, to follow His will,
 to become the Mother of the Messiah who will crush the serpent.
 May His power, His wisdom, His strength, His piety be with every one of us, ami.
 Congratulations, brothers and sisters, on the joyful Feast of Annunciation, ami.
