 Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church is now ending the fourth week of Lent, which
 is called the week of veneration of the Holy Cross.
 This is one of the three strict weeks, we have the first week, the fourth week, and
 then we will have the Passion Week, the last week of the Lent.
 It is strict because it is preparing us for the final part of the Lent.
 This part of the Lent will bring us right to the Golgotha, and the purpose of the Lent
 is for us to see with our spiritual eyes, to see the meaning of Golgotha and crucifixion,
 to penetrate into this mystery and to become together with Christ, renewed by the Resurrection
 and live in the new life with Christ, having the Kingdom of Heaven in us and having the
 old and mortal man mortified in us, this Pharaoh, or Babylon, if you will, which is in every
 one of us, or even Leviathan, you can call it.
 Well, today I want to say about the practical distinction of the spirit of Babylon, which
 is all around us.
 We are living in Babylon.
 If you carry this thought with you, you will see that it's everywhere, it's omnipresent.
 If you go to a department store, you go to a movie theater, you just walk on the street,
 you have all these advertisements, you have all these modern buildings and elegant cars
 passing by, well, you can just visually see Babylon, this whole consumerism.
 And let me just go step by step in identifying what I am talking about, because it's not
 only about this stuff which is intriguing our eyes, it's trying to pull our attention,
 attract our heart, not our eyes, our mind and heart towards these things which are being
 advertised or presented.
 And it's not only the stuff that we see, it's a lot of different things.
 Well, first of all, let's recall the prayer of Saint Ephraim the Syrian.
 The prayer of Saint Ephraim is we are asking the Lord to remove the bad spirits, the spirit
 of idleness, of slothfulness, idle talking, all this ambition, will of power and many
 other things.
 We are asking God to remove the spirit of these passions and to grant to us instead
 the spirit of meekness, of humble-mindedness, of love, these good spirits.
 Because what matters, unlike in some denominations, maybe Catholic and somewhere else, they are
 talking about you can do this, you cannot do this, you can do this, this is a big sin,
 this is a small sin.
 No, it's all about which spirit you're in.
 Are you in the spirit of God?
 You are driven by false spirit, it's the spirit of Babylon.
 And now during the most holy time in the middle of the land, it should become much more manifest
 for us, even though that we live in this world, we see it every day, but it has to
 become much more evident at this time and I hope that you can feel it and you can remember
 it even after the land, that this spirit of Babylon is everywhere.
 It's not only in this stuff that I've described, it's also on YouTube, Telegram, Facebook,
 leave alone TV or some games that people are killing their time, wasting their lives in
 those virtual realities.
 This spirit is also within our families and people that we communicate with, and eventually
 it is in us, in our values, in the way we live, the way we think, the way we talk.
 So let us think deeply about this too, help us in this.
 Let us recall Matthew chapter 5 verse 29, if your right eye makes you stumble, pluck
 it out and throw it away from you.
 And the same for your right hand and the same for your leg, cut it out and throw it out.
 It is better for you to enter into life with one eye rather than to be thrown into hyena
 of fire with your whole body.
 What does this mean?
 Well it's not just talking about temptation through eyes, through sight, not only.
 The Holy Fathers, first of all, they are talking about relationship with people, that's strange.
 Well you can imagine in those days it was not like today, all this visual stuff is surrounding
 us and everything is so interesting and our attention, our heart, our mind are drawn by
 all these different things.
 In those days it was not as bad as today, regular people wouldn't see beautiful cars
 and all kinds of appliances and other stuff that they would be enticed into buying.
 But the more dangerous thing was the people whom they communicated with.
 So the Holy Fathers explain that, for example, the eye is talking more about your friends
 whom you consult with when you make decisions, maybe even your relatives.
 The hand is mainly your relatives whom you rely on, they are like your hands, you cannot
 do without them, they help you, they cook for you, they do stuff in your house.
 And the leg represents also some co-workers or some friends who help you also do some
 things, maybe fix something somewhere.
 Now it's all done through platforms, which is also why we need to restrict AI influence
 on us and other technologies.
 But let's go step by step.
 We can see that everything that can pull us away from Christ, that can influence our
 life in such a way that we don't focus completely on Christ, on spiritual life, it's distracting
 us from prayer, from going to church, from spiritual life, from the ideas, from thinking
 through gospel, through having values of the gospel, all these things, all these relationships
 we need to cut.
 Well, we still are very relevant to our relatives, we love them, we have to love them.
 However, when it comes to harming our faith and the way we follow Christ, that's when
 we have to cut the relationship or avoid or have a distance or don't trust, don't consult
 on those matters that are pertaining to faith in one way or another.
 Of course, if they need our help, they're elderly and we need to take care of them,
 we do have to take care of them.
 Or it's small children and of course you have responsibilities.
 But if it's elderly parents or small children, they wouldn't influence you that much in terms
 of values and what you have to do.
 So it's not as dangerous.
 Well, at least we need to know about these dangers.
 That's why Christ said "your greatest enemies are the people you live with".
 These are very painful words, but we need to always keep them in mind.
 Enemies not that we are an enemy to them, but it's the people who do harm to us, who
 can harm us the most.
 They know better our weaknesses and stuff.
 But there is another level of understanding which also is given to us by the Holy Fathers.
 This is the level of our internal self.
 The "I" is our thoughts and some things which are in our heart, our deep feelings, things
 like this, they would be leading us to sin or to life without Christ.
 The hand represents our will and our desires that already produce action.
 So first it's born somewhere deep in our heart, in our mind, then it's producing action and
 will, and we go and we do it.
 So these things are related.
 We have to cut everything that's related to this, that we may seem to be harmful for our
 spiritual life, for our salvation.
 And it's talking about the right eye, the right hand.
 This means that yes, this is talking about our conscious self and the left is weaker,
 the right is stronger.
 The left would be our unconscious part, unconscious self, call it some consciousness, call it
 whatever.
 But when you get drunk, you do much worse sins because you cannot even control what
 you do.
 You just go by your desires, instincts, or maybe some pervert things which are still
 in your mind somewhere deep there.
 If our right eye, right hand, the stronger soul, the conscious soul is drawn by something,
 the left will follow.
 The left will surrender, for sure.
 So we have to take care about the right.
 If we can fix the right, the left will follow, it will comply.
 The biggest danger is from the right.
 So I would say it's a much bigger danger if you sin during the day than if you have similar
 sins in your dreams.
 Maybe you know what I'm talking about.
 There's also a sin, but it's not as big of a sin as if you do sins when you're awake.
 So we have to fight with this.
 We have limited control of what happens when we sleep, but our prayer before sleep makes
 a big difference.
 And of course, our fasting and fight with passions, it will also influence what we have
 in our subconscious.
 Then Babylon.
 Let's come back to the Babylon problem.
 Last video, I've already talked a little bit about Babylon.
 If this is a big topic, we will talk more about it in the future, because we need to
 see that it's all around, and we need to learn how to keep distance not to be harmed by the
 spirit of this Babylon, even though it's all on campus.
 This is why Marx and all these Satanists said that your being produces your conscience.
 Well, when we lose union with God, with Christ, that's what happens.
 What we see, what we do, this being is our material reality, if you will, will be forming
 our mind, our heart, and everything else.
 And it's difficult to, because we are physical, we're humans, and it's difficult to completely
 abstain.
 So that's why some saints, they went to the desert to keep themselves completely cut from
 all these influences.
 So, Babylon is trying to bring heavens to earth.
 This is the main thing about Babylon, and it's global, it wants to pull everybody into
 it, and that's why they were building this tower, not to reach the heaven and to have
 union with heaven, no.
 To say that we are higher than heaven, that we don't need heaven.
 But this is why they were building from top, not from bottom to top.
 If we read the original carefully, they had the top in the heaven, and they were building
 towards the top.
 That means that they wanted to bring the heaven to this world.
 And this is what happens, both in capitalist societies, in socialist countries, it's all
 about economy, well-being, prosperity, comfort, longevity, you name it, health care, it's
 all about these goodies in this world.
 And this is why people don't go to church.
 Everybody just turn away from the church, because they have their Babylon, they have
 their paradise here, even though they don't have it, but this is all they're dreaming
 about.
 So this is the Babylon, and this Babylon happens, as I said, on different levels.
 In our heart, in our mind, in those trade centers, shopping malls, Babylon is producing,
 it has creativity, it's creating new products that make life more convenient for you, they
 make this and that, and you are drawn by all this stuff.
 You think, yes, it is important, of course, it's important, my health is important, my
 look, how I look, new clothes, and all this, this is important.
 And then you become slave of the Babylon.
 You're enslaved by the spirit of the Babylon, you're enslaved by the lifestyle of the Babylon,
 you become part of the Babylon.
 So to conclude, I want to mention that the final incarnation of the Antichrist, it will
 not require to kill many Christians in the way that, you know, the Soviet Satanists,
 all this Lenin and all these people, they've killed millions of people, Christians and
 clergy just to erase any influence of Christian values upon the rest of the society.
 Well, in the future, when the Antichrist would be coming or some other ruler or this great
 reset or whatever, some program, some new agenda of Antichrist would be coming, it will
 not need to kill so many Christians.
 It might want to kill a lot of people like we have now during these wars and the pandemics
 and everything else, but it won't need to kill too many Christians.
 Why?
 Well, because most of them will be already living by the spirit of Babylon.
 Okay, comfort, tasty food, okay, convenience, income, prosperity, entertainment, all these
 things.
 We walk out of the church and we become parts of the Babylon, usually that's what happens.
 It won't need to kill us.
 You want to believe in your Christ, believe in your Christ, and people won't even be able
 to tell the difference between Christ and Antichrist.
 They might, most likely most Christians will receive Antichrist as Christ or great prophet
 or great king or something else, okay, and they will do it because their whole heart,
 the whole mind will be already reprogrammed, already corrupt to such a degree that they
 will not even think about any life outside of this paradigm, okay.
 So let us know about this, let us beware, during the land now we need to kill our attachment
 to this Babylon.
 We need to see that snake which is inside our heart, okay, it's waking up.
 When we don't feed this Pharaoh inside us, it's waking up, this is why you don't give
 me this, I want pleasure, I want this, this, this, okay, he's angry, he's nervous, and
 we feel this great pressure if we fast strictly and if we have prayer and spiritual life during
 the land.
 May the Lord help us kill this Pharaoh, this snake, may he give us eagerness on the path
 of the land in prayer, in fasting, in doing spiritual work, in doing deeds of mercy, in
 working with our heart, and very important to see the Babylon both inside and outside
 and to cut any ties with that Babylon, to not have any enjoyment in walking in the mall
 or playing some computer games, to find no joy in those things, okay, it should be something
 foreign to us, okay, no spiritual attachment, no feeling that "oh it's so pleasant but I
 cannot do it, well let's wait till the land is over", no, we need to see it's a domination,
 I don't want Babylon in my life forever at all, okay, even when it's not fasting time
 at any time, I don't want to do anything, to have anything in common with Babylon, okay,
 may the Lord help us, protect us from the spirit of mammon, give us joy, give us strength,
 give us wisdom, unite us to himself and among each other through the Holy Eucharist and
 with the movement, breath of the Holy Spirit, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
