 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about the mystery, the mystery of the life after life.
 First of all, let's take a look at the passage.
 This is the first letter to the Corinthians, chapter 2, verse 9.
 "As it is written, eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him."
 For the people who love the Lord, there is no judgment. They pass from life to life.
 This is the highest possible outcome, the best possible outcome of Christian life, that we don't even have to go through judgment.
 We don't believe in that waiting, which is more, which is less, these merits and punishments and all these things, all this scholastic stuff.
 The Orthodox Church always believes that it's all about the heart of man, how open is it to the Lord, how deep it has embraced the gospel.
 And in the Bible itself, we read that this life is the seed and the life after death is the fruit.
 In Galatians 6, verse 6 and 7, whoever is planting into his flesh, he will reap death or destruction, corruption, decay.
 And whoever seeds into spirit, he will reap the life everlasting, the true life, the life that is everlasting.
 Already here, actually, we already begin to reap these fruits, but it's now as though through this glass, not so clear, not so full, we can lose it anytime.
 But at the end of this life, we will gain the full union with Christ.
 So, the departure, we say repose, dormition, it's like a sleep.
 Dormition of a Christian, any member of the Christian group, would be a festival, would be a celebration, a big feast.
 If somebody has left, that means that he has ended, he has, this Greek word, his strife, his challenge, he has went through this life and he has accomplished what the Lord wanted him to accomplish.
 And now he is enjoying his reward in full, full, full liberation, full liberation, because now he cannot, he would not sin again, there is no passion, no sin there anymore.
 And every Christian is hoping to reach that, that's why they also call it the second baptism, death, we will call it second baptism, even though we believe in one baptism, for the remission of sins.
 But that is analogy, a metaphor, because it also was giving you birth to this life eternal in Christ, with Christ.
 And now we still have this in the monasteries, in monastic communities, the brethren, they would celebrate, somebody would die, they would celebrate, it would be feast, processions, with joyful chanting, they would tell each other stories about how he would be praying, doing some other things.
 Of ascetic, so that would be a very joyful moment, and especially the holy fathers, they would be saying that if you are feeling negative about death, if you fear death, if you want to avoid it by all means,
 if you don't want to think about it, that means that you are still far away from Christ, if you are close to Christ, that would not be an issue for you.
 Especially, we can read even the same Nelos, this is ancient ascetic, he said that you should always expect death every day, but at the same time you should not be afraid of death, these go together, these are two virtues, and they would tell you how far are you still from Christ.
 If you are really afraid of death or if you don't want to think about it, that means that you are still far away from Christ, most of us are like that.
 Why is this so? Well, because our spiritual eyes are still closed, and we don't really feel, we don't really know these good things, we don't really know how to love God, why we should love him, how to love him, and we would even feel intuitively hell, and we don't want to get in there.
 These demons who come to sinners, they are like extorting their soul, and then they would be pulling the soul to them, and the words of Christ, which he said in the Gospel of John 14.30, that the prince of this world is coming, and he has nothing in me.
 What does this mean? Well, usually we understand it is that Christ has nothing to do with this prince, they have different agenda, different goals, there is no cooperation, but this has another meaning, they have the meaning that Christ in himself, he has nothing that belongs to the prince of this world.
 And this is why when he died, the death could not grasp him, and he resurrected, he came up in glory, and ascended into heaven, and nothing was able to stop him.
 And in us, it is different. In us it is different. Every passion, every sin, every blemish, whatever we have, it is something that belongs to the prince of this world.
 Some bad habits, addictions, dirty thoughts, everything, he occupies that part of your soul, it is the snake that came into your soul and is living in there.
 Be it anger, be it gluttony, be it lust, be it whatever. Hatred, the cable, the vainglory, whatever it is. And that belongs to the prince of this world, and that's why when the person dies, these guys, these demons, they come and say "we need to take our stuff, this soul belongs to us, this is our stuff".
 That's why they're called toll collectors, extortioners, chasers, they chase you, they always count how much you owe them, and things like this.
 This is actually one of the reasons why the bankers were not a good profession, because they would be doing similar things as the demons, saying "now you need to collect some payment, you need to pay back", stuff like that.
 So, why I decided to talk about this now, because just recently our brother, our brother in Christ, in China, he passed away.
 And he passed away in such a way that I think we can learn a great deal from him. And I even get a little jealous about the way he died.
 And I can tell you why. Jealous in the good sense. Well, he died right before he was about to be baptized, the day before. That was last Friday, on the Friday of the week of the veneration of the cross.
 And this is a very holy week, and Friday is the day of crucifixion of Christ, when Christ himself died. That was the day before.
 He was putting so much effort into preparing for baptism. He was praying, he was reading the scripture every day, he was fasting, he was not eating anything.
 Some people, some slanderers, they say "oh, this is why he died, the church taught him to die, so you guys are guilty of that".
 Well, this is also a temptation from the devil, because nobody dies after two days of fasting.
 And he died on the third day of strict fast, which is no food at all.
 And we didn't teach him that, it was his idea. Because Orthodox practice is three days before you get baptized, there is fasting in terms of eating a vegetarian diet.
 So, no meat, no dairy, no eggs, no fish, but you can eat. But he took it much more seriously, and he decided to just go straight without any food.
 And not only that, the week before he died, we had classes for the whole week, and he attended these classes and we talked with him, and he gave me an impression of the most pious of all the students.
 For him, prayer, he would be grasping every word, he would be really going into all the details of our lectures, what we were talking about.
 We were talking about spirituality, and for him it was so important, he brought his children with him. He was so happy when I gave him holy icons and the prayer ropes or prayer.
 And it was really amazing to see someone so eager and so kind, he could feel this humbleness. And all of that came with great pain.
 But also in terms of his life before, his life before was this search of faith, he would be quarrelling with different sects, trying to find the truth. And also his family life was not happy, they had big problems, big issues.
 He had to leave the house, it was difficult for him, the life was full of pain, and this also made him pray so earnestly.
 And I believe that he found the true faith because he was going through so much challenge, and it's like the cleansing of the soul when you go through so much challenge.
 And the Lord decided that it's enough for him, this challenge, this pain that he had to go through is enough. And now is the best time, the best time for him to be taken to the kingdom of heavens.
 And he took him. And also when he died, I saw many people, many dead people, priests, we would do a lot of funeral services, and usually the face is covered.
 Because it's either full of terror, horror, it's something really terrible that the person saw before he died.
 And also sometimes it's very gloomy or very strict, very serious and gloomy.
 But with him it was joy, you could see joy and even little smile on his face.
 And he died with his hands like this, he fell back, when he died he fell back, his legs were like needling and falling back in this gesture of the prayer.
 And I believe that he was praying when he died.
 So many, many signs we see, we should not be too emotional and have some fantasies, some meditations and stories, this means this and that.
 No, we don't know if he is a saint, I hope we will one day, but usually it takes years for the church to receive the signs of someone being a saint for public veneration by all the Christians.
 With him we don't have so many signs yet, but in the early church the Christians would call all the departed, they would call them blessed.
 They receive the blessed life, they are blessed by being taken into this celebration of the kingdom.
 And in that sense I can say that he is blessed.
 He was not in any sin in those days, in accusing someone or quarreling or something else, he was praying from morning to night every day and fasting.
 He took his children to school, he came back home and he died.
 So whenever we don't see any evidence since that a person died drinking or something else, not going to church for a long time, then we have reservation.
 We cannot say anything about where was the destiny of this person's soul, but with him I think we can be pretty sure that he was received by the angels to the heavens.
 And this is why I have somewhat I have to jealousy, good jealousy, that he was able to be received in those days, in this holy days and this holy state of life.
 And for us, most of us we have experienced this love towards Christ, towards church, towards God and like very eager, trying to be very eager about prayer, about fasting, about many things.
 We are reading the scripture of the life of saints, we are excited, we are full of this, we are craving for spirituality.
 However, after two years, five years, twenty years, after some time, people say, well, days are going, nothing special happens.
 So it's nothing special. I'm Christian, I go to church, I sometimes go, sometimes not go.
 So it's okay, just go as it goes.
 And that is the great sin, because the Lord in Revelation said that I had to tell to the angel of the church that I have something against you, that you have re-abandoned the first love.
 Tell to the church that you are not hot, not cold, you are something in the middle, warm and this is nothing.
 The first love, you have to have it all the time and it has to get stronger.
 Visualize, be vigilant. The Lord said blessed are those who are thirsty and hungry for righteousness, always and then they are blessed.
 This is why I believe that he is blessed and I hope that all of us can be blessed.
 And to have this great desire for sanctity, for life in Christ, we need to learn repentance.
 As the prophet David said, I see my sin always before me. My sin is always before me.
 I can see that I'm a sinner all the time and this makes me willing to change, willing to search for God, chase him, grasp him, penetrate into the Holy Scripture,
 put effort into prayer, put effort into ministry, self-sacrifice for others.
 This is what opens the way for the Holy Spirit to move, to give us the direction, the strength to continue this struggle.
 In Greek this is agon, we need to be on that path every day of our life.
 And there is a story that there are two sons, they came to their father and he told them that there is a field, you need to work on this field on the special day.
 The special day, if you work on that day, then you don't have to work for your whole life.
 You will receive some great treasures on that day if you work on that day and then you won't have to work for the rest of your life.
 So they asked him what day is that? And he said, I forgot.
 But there is one day in a year that is like that, so they work for the whole year every day expecting for that day.
 They work hard all the year and then they come and they say, well, we worked all year and nothing happened.
 And he said, well, let's try another year, maybe it's the next year.
 So they go and they try, they work every day so hard and they come and say, well, this day didn't come.
 But actually we don't need that day anymore because these two years of hard labor brought us enough resources, enough stuff.
 So we are fine now and we learn how to work. So now we don't really need that day.
 They would love to work. And he said, well, you see, guys, this is a parable for the spiritual life, that you need to work for the Lord every day of your life, spiritual life.
 And expecting that this is your last day. And if you have that expectation, first, on your last day, you will be like this, like our brother George.
 OK. Yes. And Gregory, sorry, not George, brother Gregory. And then you will also accumulate great treasures by then, which also will go with you.
 OK, so let us remember these things. Let us learn from this instance with our brother and let's pray for the repose of his soul.
 We ask also for his prayers for us. And in these days of the great land, we should be thinking deeply about the end of the life.
 The Lord's life is about to end on the passion week. He will be crucified and died and we should be ready to die with him.
 May we not be afraid of the death. Maybe we may we be mortal and overthrowing devil, evil and death by the power of our Lord with his grace.
 I mean, God bless to your brothers and sisters.
