 Dear brothers and sisters, recently I was asked to explain what is Church's attitude towards Catholics, Protestants, other people who call themselves Christians.
 This question is very important because we need to understand what is the Church.
 We need to have a clear ecclesiological understanding of what is the Church of Christ and what is not and what does it mean.
 Because the spirit of ecumenism is now omnipresent and this slogan that they love, they say that there is only one God.
 This is a slogan of antichrist, you know, that's what they're gonna be saying. Because this means that now you don't need to care how to approach God, how to find Him, what to do to get in the union with Him.
 You don't need to worry about all these things. Because He is only one God, so all churches are all the same, it doesn't matter.
 Well, it's the idea that there is only one Son. And now it doesn't matter what you think about the Son.
 Some people think it's God, they worship the Son. So it really matters what you know about God, if your idea about God is true or it's an illusion.
 And if it's an illusion, then all your spirituality will be false, will be fake, all your prayers will be fake.
 So, it is super important to know about the Lord. And for the church, throughout all these centuries, that was the main idea, to have the right understanding about God, so that we can love the true God and that we can worship the true God.
 So it's impossible to have love towards the true God if you don't know anything about Him. Or even worse, if you have wrong ideas about Him.
 And we will see that the conception of God in Catholicism and in Protestantism is completely wrong, it's very perverted, it's an illusion.
 But let's see what the saints and the holy councils have to say about this, because I don't want it to be just something that I think...
 I want to show you what is the revelation received by this holy man and holy councils of the church that is telling us about Catholicism and Protestantism.
 Because some people say, well, there was no ecumenical council condemning Catholicism or Protestantism, so you cannot say that it's a heresy. Well, now you will see that all the saints call it heresies.
 And there is not even one single saint who would say that Catholicism is not a heresy, or that Protestantism is not a heresy.
 But before going into that, I need to say that there is a big problem with us, Orthodox.
 Because we use the true faith as a stick to hit somebody. We are protecting our faith not with love, not according to gospel, but according to pagan methods or Judaism methods.
 With hatred, like the scribes, using these letters, these formulas to kill people, to hate them, to condemn them.
 This is unacceptable. This is a great perversion of the faith as well.
 People who don't have love, they are not Orthodox, who don't have love at all, who have hatred, who have enmity.
 So we need to distinguish the human being, the person, and the error that he believes in, or sin that he does.
 When we distinguish these things, we love the person and we condemn and hate the errors coming from the devil.
 And this is why we don't want, because we love him, we don't want him to get into those errors and mistakes.
 But these ecumenists, they will say, you hate people, you don't love people, that's why you criticize, and you are very arrogant.
 No. They mix people and what they believe in. And their love is fake. They say that they love people and that's why they approve anything they believe, anything they do,
 any immoral things they do, everything is fine. This is the liberal and ecumenist perception, idea.
 And unfortunately, it's also present within the Orthodox Church. We have these ecumenist-minded people.
 And we also have those zealots, those scribes and Pharisees who are going by the letter. And those hate humanity, hate everything, and are ready to kill anybody who is not in accordance with these letters.
 They love to talk about anathemas and condemnations and stuff like that. So we don't want to be either of these.
 We want to have love, but we do want to understand what the holy people, those who were living by faith, driven by the Holy Spirit, what did they have to say about Catholicism and Protestantism?
 After this introduction, let me go right into it. And I will just say a few of them, because it's too many, it's really too many.
 St. Photeus of Constantinople, he says that those Latins, in those days it was not yet Catholic, it was not completely separate yet, but already beginning to split away.
 They brought all kinds of lawless things, lawless teachings into the faith. And even the Creed, they have distorted.
 And they have this lie about the Holy Spirit, that it's coming not only from Father, but from the Son also.
 They distorted the main dogma of the Holy Trinity.
 This philioquia, this dogma, is a blasphemy. It is contrary to Gospel, contrary to saints, saints, fathers of the Church, ecumenical, holy and ecumenical councils.
 And this is a fight against God, and it's going against all the prophets, all the apostles, all the saints and martyrs, and even against the words of the Lord Christ himself.
 So we have a council, and the voice of our council is condemning, is expressing the voice of the Lord and condemning these teachings.
 Also we have many other saints. St. Mark of Ephesus, he says that we rejected the Latins away from us, we split them away, not for any other reason, but because they are heretics.
 This is about, for the people who think that we cannot say that Catholics are heretics. They are heretics, because the saints are saying that.
 Also, St. Gregory the Palamas, he says that this philioquia is a heretic teaching.
 And St. Simeon, Archbishop of Thessaloniki, is saying that the council has anathema against those who say philioquia, and they are chased away from the Church, out of the Church, because they have blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 St. Nicodemus of the Mount Athos, St. Cosmas of Ethola, he says that the pope is an antichrist, and you have to condemn the pope, because he will become the reason of apostasy.
 This is a prophecy about the future apostasy of the whole humankind. The pope will be heading that apostasy.
 And St. Nictarius of Pentepal, St. Theodosius of the Kyiv case, he says that my beloved children, those with a distorted faith, you need to be keeping away from them, from their conversations with them, from their customs.
 From their communion, from their teaching, all their methods, you need to keep in contempt.
 And many other things, I won't say all of them. We also have holy councils, the Council of 879 in Constantinople, the Philoque is a heresy, in 1450 in Constantinople, against many teachings of Latin as heretical.
 Also other councils, 1722, 1838, there was a very big letter signed by four patriarchs to all the Orthodox Christians in 1848.
 They say that the idea, the newly introduced idea, the idea that was newly introduced by Latins, that the Holy Spirit comes from Father and the Son, is a real heresy, and all adherents of this idea, whoever they are, are heretics.
 Well, you know, the Catholics now, they say that you can say both, you can say from Father and the Son, you can say just from the Father, it doesn't matter, it's all okay.
 Of course, this is just a lie, because for them now, nothing matters at all. It just matters if you accept the Pope or not.
 So, they completely don't care about their faith, and even most, not everyone, but most people don't care, it just becomes political group, just, you know, organization, just human organization, nothing else.
 Okay, Saint Theophant, the Recluse, Saint Ignatius, Brinch and Enoch, Saint John of Cranstadt, all of them, call them heretics.
 I just don't have enough time to say all of those things now, but just believe me that this is what it is.
 But now, you see, people might say, well, Protestants also criticize Catholicism, so Protestants maybe are right.
 Well, the Holy Fathers and the Orthodox Church finds that Protestantism is even a bigger and more harmful heresy than Catholicism.
 Catholicism was the head of all future heresies. It created this humanistic idea that it's all about one man that has all the truth, and he can tell this truth to everyone else.
 And he's above all the holy councils, he's above everything, he just gets the message from the God, and only he has this power to express this message.
 But then, all the Protestants, they said, well, we all, every one of us, want to have that power.
 We don't need to listen to any teaching of the Church. We don't need any authority.
 Same was with the Pope. The Pope said, I don't need any authority of the Church. I, myself, is the highest authority.
 He said, also, I, myself, every single Protestant, is authority. I don't need any Church teaching. I just need the Bible, and whatever I understand, I interpret this Bible as the true teaching.
 So this brought this beginning for this humanism, this humanitarian understanding that the source of everything is the human, not the God.
 You are the source of interpretation of the true knowledge about the Bible. You don't need to wait for the Holy Spirit to come down and tell you anything.
 You don't need the Church, you don't need. And the first outcome of this became very expectable, because the humans are fallen, so their flesh, they want to serve the flesh.
 They don't want anything restricting this flesh. So, they said, we don't need any ascotism. We don't need monasticism, we don't need fasting, we don't need any constraints to our flesh, to our mind, to our reason.
 It has to be completely, whatever I think is true. So, this rejects Christianity in its core, because Christianity is about taking up your cross and following Christ.
 But now, you can call yourself Christian, but you don't take up your cross, and you don't follow Christ.
 You just run around and you think that you are saved already, and you are just convincing others to just believe, and that's it.
 And you don't need to go through any sacrifice, you don't need to suffer with Christ, you don't need to fight with evil. No, you are already saved.
 So, this is just illusion, that you are automatically saved. It's auto-training. I am saved. Hallelujah.
 This is complete blindness, complete blindness and delusion by the Saturn.
 And so many people died into this delusion.
 So, the Protestants, even when they reject some errors of Catholics, they reject and distort even more.
 For example, when they reject the indulgence that you can buy forgiveness of your punishments with money.
 They reject this. Yes, this is right. But they also reject the repentance, and confession, and fasting, and ascetism that you need to fight with your sins.
 All of that they also reject. So, this becomes much, much worse than it used to be.
 And we can say many, many other examples about this.
 Saint Justin Popovich says many things about this. There's this great work, the author's "Notes on Ecumenism".
 I recommend you to read "Notes on Ecumenism". He explains how the Protestant ideas that everyone is this standard of truth.
 It creates the basis for rationalism, for nihilism, for Marxism, for modernism, for postmodernism, for atheism.
 It opens a wide road that the whole Western society goes into these satanic philosophies and ways of thinking and living.
 And we are receiving this fallen and self-destroying world of today.
 And then it's projecting this for the whole world, to the whole world, and the whole world goes into the abyss.
 So this is a really... and of course they don't need any Christianity at all anymore.
 But now it just goes by itself. Mamonism. The one word for it is mamonism.
 And the roots are there. The big root is in Catholicism, then Protestantism, and then all these other sects
 and fake, false philosophies.
 So this is what saint Justin Popovich tells us.
 That it's of course a heresy. He calls it both Catholicism and Protestantism.
 He calls it all heresy, because it gives the rise to all other heresies.
 And Protestantism inherits this all heresy and makes it even worse.
 It develops it to its logical implementation.
 Also other saints. We have saint Ignatius Brezhininov, who tells us that Luther and everyone who followed him
 were radical fighters against chastity.
 This is why they reject the chastity of Saint Mary, and have this blasphemous idea that she had relationships after she gave birth to the Lord.
 And then they reject monasticism and all kinds of self-constraint for virtue, to have virtuous life.
 This is all this debauchery and complete fearfulness.
 And also they reject many things. They reject icons, holy relics, sacraments and all the Church tradition.
 And just have this completely baseless individualistic interpretation of the Bible.
 And all these errors, they are foreign to the teaching of the Holy Church.
 And have all kinds of blasphemies against the Holy Spirit.
 Again, we see in the Catholicism there is this blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 In the Protestantism again the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 So it's not just some personal opinions.
 It's a very serious blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 This is why they are rejecting everything, all the fruits of the Holy Spirit in the Church.
 They reject them all.
 And of course now we are talking about those who are really fixed on that enmity against the true faith.
 But many Protestants and even Catholics are still seeking for truth, they are humble, they are comparing, they are studying, they are trying to figure out things.
 So of course we are not calling them heretics.
 Because they are still in this search and we even consider that probably they already can be considered catechumens of the Church, of the true Church.
 Catechumens are those who are on the path to the holy baptism and illumination in Christ.
 So there is hope for salvation for them of course and we have as a matter of fact quite many Orthodox who used to be Protestant or Catholic.
 So we see that this fight is going on.
 This is why we always avoid mixing people and their teaching.
 The teaching is fake, false, brings condemnation, brings all kinds of corruption and sin.
 But the people are created into the image of God and the Lord hopes that every and each of them will be saved, will come to the knowledge of the truth.
 So these are just some of these teachings, of course there are much more.
 In Titus chapter 3 verse 10 and 11 it says that you need to keep away from a heretic after the first and second attempt to bring him to mind.
 Knowing that he is corrupted and is sinning and he is condemned by himself, self-contempt.
 There is no need for God's condemnation, he is condemning himself by his fixation on the air and not willing to listen to the truth.
 So we need to be careful about the truth that the Orthodox Church possesses.
 It's like fire that can bring warmth, that can bring light, enlightenment.
 But if we use it in a clumsy way or with hatred against people, it will become like a fire that will harm both them and us.
 So we should be very careful about the holy truth that is entrusted to the Orthodox Church.
 We should not be driven by this worldly spirit that we just need to be friends with everyone, political correctness, don't call anyone heretic, be so nice and kind.
 This is fake, this is fake kindness, this is fake love.
 So let us study deeply our faith, let us live by our faith.
 This is the true apostolic faith, we need to live by this faith and that can bring us to holiness.
 Saint Ignatius preaching himself, the Protestantism, it has numberless theologians but not even single saint.
 It has not produced even single saint, even though it's like hundreds of millions of people throughout centuries, they have not produced even single saint and the same goes for the Catholics.
 So let us remember this, let us be in union with the true church, let us progress in this union, progress in love, in overcoming, overthrowing our old self and in craving for the revelation of the Lord, for his salvation.
 We need to take up the cross and follow him and to come up together with him on Golgotha and to enter into his eternal glory, Ami.
 May the Lord help and bless every one of us, dear brothers and sisters, Ami.
