 Dear brothers and sisters, the Great Lent is over and the Holy Church has entered the Passion Week and very soon we will also celebrate Pascha, Resurrection of Christ.
 And during these Holy Days it's important to think deeply about the meaning of the Passions and today I want to say about one very common misunderstanding.
 Misunderstanding of many people about Easter, about Pascha.
 Very often we criticize, and rightly so, we criticize Protestants saying that they have salvation without the Cross, without Passions.
 Because, of course, they don't have the understanding of ascetics or ascetism, the problem of overcoming old self, and there is not much emphasis given to repentance and suffering.
 It's already "Alleluia", it's already "You are saved already".
 Of course, this is a very anti-Christian perception, which puts you on a broad path, which I've talked about in my previous video.
 And we criticize Catholics for overemphasizing Christmas over Easter, because it's also worldly thinking, because it's easier to understand God's coming to this world.
 Now this world is blessed, because He came to us, but Easter, Pascha, is about the eternal world, it's about the life to come, it's about the Resurrection.
 And this is a little bit not so easy to comprehend, to carnal mind, to earthly mind, this is more abstract, this is not so closely related to this world.
 And this is why in the Catholic and in Protestant countries, Christmas is emphasized more than Easter, so there is this problem.
 But within the Orthodox Church, which preserves the true teaching, which preserves the true worship, true liturgy, true asceticism, everything is there in the Church, undistorted.
 However, because people are people, and a great number of people not put serious emphasis into spiritual life, and this brings distorted understanding, distorted perception about Easter, about Pascha, within the Orthodox Church.
 So today this is what I want to say. What are we celebrating in Pascha?
 The usual answer would be the Resurrection of Christ, that He won, He overthrew the death, and He gave us the eternal life.
 So, Alleluias, let's celebrate this. Well, this is only a part, this is only an outcome of what was done by the Lord.
 But the most important, what the Lord has done, and what is celebrated in Pascha, in every divine literature, Eucharist, we celebrate the passions and death of Christ.
 And in the early Church there was a clear distinction, I shouldn't say clear distinction, but there was this understanding that Pascha, the Greek verb is to suffer.
 This is the suffering of Christ, so the passions of Christ, and the Pascha is the same. And the Resurrection, Anastasi, was the outcome of these passions.
 So, when we are talking about celebrating Pascha, the first and foremost is the celebration of the passions and death of Christ.
 And we find all support for that. What support? Both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament.
 Well, for us the New Testament has priority, so let's first talk about the New Testament.
 In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul, he says, in the 1 Corinthians 11.20, he says, you come together in a way that it doesn't mean to eat the supper of the Lord, the Lord's Supper.
 What does this mean? The Lord's Supper is the mystical supper, in the West it's called the Last Supper, but we call it the Mystical Supper.
 This supper which took place on the evening before the passions of Christ, so that would be, in our understanding, Thursday evening.
 So, on Thursday evening, there was this celebration. So, for us, the Eucharist is the mystical supper.
 This is the mystical supper, it happens again. We participated in it. In the mystical way, we have it again, we become part of this mystical supper.
 And Pascha is, you could call it a big mystical supper, because the celebration of this supper in the church happens every day, and the bigger one would be every week on Sunday, and even the bigger one would be once a year on Pascha.
 So, this would be the biggest celebration of the mystical supper. So, every liturgy is related directly to the mystical supper.
 What the mystical supper is all about? The Lord breaks the bread. The bread means his body, and breaking means death. So, he's talking about his death.
 The chalice that he takes and gives to everyone, he says this is the chalice of our covenant, and this represents his blood, and he says this is my blood.
 So, in the mystical way, it becomes his blood. And blood means suffering and death. You pour your blood, and this is your death.
 So, he's talking about the passions and death. He's not talking about resurrection here. So, the mystical supper, the topic, the core of this supper is the suffering and death of Christ, not the resurrection.
 So, the disciples were doing it again over and over and over. And this is our Divine Liturgy. It's the same celebration.
 Now, Apostle Paul says that if he's criticizing this Corinthians, he's saying that you sin against death of Christ.
 When you receive the body of Christ and you divide, these are rich people, these are poor people, we have some distinction.
 If you make any distinctions, you're sinning against the death of Christ. He didn't say you're sinning against the resurrection of Christ.
 You're sinning against the death of Christ, because he died for everyone on the cross, and that means that everyone is the same.
 He died for each and every one of the people, of all the people. And you're sinning against it, because you're discriminating, you're distinguishing, you are this, you are that.
 So, this also means that this celebration of the Eucharist, when we partake of the body of Christ, this is celebrating his death.
 This sounds strange. This is why people don't understand it, because it sounds very strange. Why are you celebrating death?
 Okay, then, let us move on. In the Last Supper, in the Mystical Supper, the Lord is using the Old Testament Pesach.
 Old Testament Pesach becomes New Testament Bascha. The Old Testament Pesach means "to go through".
 It was prophetic, this passing of Israel from Egypt through the Red Sea, crossing the Red Sea and receiving the freedom from slavery, and the Pharaoh was drowned by the waters of the Red Sea.
 That passing, that escape, this is what was celebrated on Pesach in the Old Testament.
 And the Lord is using it, and he is saying, so now, what brings you from sin to freedom, from death to life, is my suffering and death.
 And this is what will happen on the cross next day. So, this sacrifice, he is sacrificing himself. On the Eucharist, Christ is sacrificed.
 So, again, this is the death of the Lord.
 Again, if you are not convinced yet, we can also think about the Holy Martyrs.
 How do we celebrate the Holy Martyrs? We celebrate them on the day of their death. On the day of their death, that's the celebration.
 And this day for them was the day of triumph, their best day. The women were making up their hair, they were shining, they were walking out in this Colosseum, or in these places where they were killed.
 They were walking out on a stage, like a marriage, some big, big celebration. This was the day of their glory.
 And for the Lord, the glory was on the cross, when he was nailed to the cross. This was the moment of his glory.
 He gave over his life for the humans. He accomplished this overthrowing of evil by surrendering himself, self-sacrifice and death for others.
 So, this is the glory. We celebrate his glory on the cross, through the Passions, on the cross. This is the core of Pascha.
 It's not like now, many people would think that the Passion Week is very strict fast. This means that we are preparing for Pascha.
 We are preparing for Pascha very well. Hopefully it will end soon, because Pascha is coming and now it's tough.
 We fast. But no, we shouldn't change their mind. This is what we were waiting for.
 The whole great land was the preparation for the Passion Week. It was not the preparation for Pascha.
 It was the preparation for Pascha. No, Pascha is the outcome of the Passion Week.
 But it's not that Passion Week is just the preparation. It is Pascha itself.
 Especially the three days. Thursday, Friday, Saturday. So, let us think very deeply about this.
 And among these three days, Friday, we call it the Passion Friday or the Great Friday.
 We don't call it Holy Friday or Good Friday like Catholics. We call it Passion Friday or Great Friday.
 So, this day is the day of crucifixion and death of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross.
 Let us think deeply about these things, brothers and sisters. Let us keep silent.
 Let us not divert our attention to anything else in these holy days, to any secular thing, to any other entertainment, some idol talks.
 We focus completely on what was done for us by our Lord and on our willingness to be crucified together with Him on the cross, to follow Him despite everything.
 And remember His voice.
 "Ili, Ili, lamassa vakthani" - God, my God, my God, why you abandoned me. So, in our life very often we might feel abandoned.
 Even when we don't do some sins, we still may feel abandoned by the Lord.
 In those times of affliction and warfare, spiritual warfare, we have to stand fast to the Lord knowing that this is the Gogotha that came.
 This is when we are together with Christ suffering on the cross.
 This is the meaning. This is the moment of glory that the Lord has prepared for us.
 And not just celebrating, yes, nice chanting and very nice music, decorations, lights, candles and nice food and stuff like this. No.
 And this is why also very often people don't feel spiritual change.
 They would go through this cycle, this whole Great Land, Paschal cycle, and they would not feel any spiritual change.
 Yes, nice tradition, yes, joyful events, but everything remains the same, I'm still a sinner like I was, and nothing really changes inside me in my life, because people misunderstand.
 The true thing slips their attention. You don't notice it, because you don't know that this is now when the spiritual significance arrived.
 But you think, I hope it's going to be over soon, because I'm waiting for these nice celebrations and stuff, which we will have on the Easter liturgy.
 And this is why many people don't go for the evening service on regular liturgies. They come only for Sunday.
 What is this secular Protestant thinking? Only that, okay, celebrating, now we're celebrating. No.
 It is on the evening that we are preparing for the coming of the Lord, that we look deeply into the suffering of the Lord, into what happened that brought about this liberation, that made it possible for us to be liberated.
 This is the key, not the liberation itself. What has made it possible for us to be liberated? This is what is important.
 May the Lord give us this spiritual perception that it becomes part of our prayer, that it becomes part of our spiritual journey, and that we are all really taking up our cross.
 Without this, we will not know what it means to take up your cross and follow Christ. It will become only some words, okay?
 May he help us, may he teach us to take up our cross and follow him to Golgotha. Amen.
 May the Lord bless every one of you. Amen.
