 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen!
 The Holy Church celebrates the Pascha, the resurrection of Christ, for 40 days, until
 the Ascension.
 During these 40 days we say "Christ is risen" and reply "Indeed he is risen!" or "He is
 truly risen!"
 And we wear red clothes, we chant "Troparion of Pascha".
 These days are very bright and they put us into a very close relationship with God.
 We lose the feeling of separation between the earthly world and the divine heavenly
 world, because the Lord, he appeared to his disciples for 40 days, upon resurrection he
 came there quite a few times, explaining all the prophecies and telling them of the mysteries
 of the Kingdom of Heaven and their mission that they have to accomplish.
 So these 40 days for them it was some miraculous time that the teacher is still here, he is
 still around, because he appears to us all of a sudden in closed rooms, he has some special
 supernatural abilities and his body, it's still physical body, so it's mind blowing
 what's happening.
 It's either heaven, because he rose, he is in that life, he is not in this life of these
 mortals anymore, but still he is here with us, so this experience is the experience of
 the Kingdom of Heaven, which came down on the apostles and they had this profound experience
 of this Kingdom.
 This is true every time for the Church, that it's uniting the heavens and the earth, but
 especially during this time.
 This is a very special time, the most blessed and miraculous time of the whole year.
 There is a great risk and danger, especially for Christians, for Orthodox Christians who
 relax, because you were fasting for 40 days for actually 7 weeks, and now it's all celebration,
 it's all about celebration, praise the Lord, hallelujah, he rose, victory, and it's very
 easy to lose this soberness and to get relaxed, and even go back to the passions and sins.
 So the Holy Fathers, they say that after Pascha, the spiritual life doesn't disappear, it has
 to be even more active than it used to be before, because now we have greater abilities, our
 heart has been transformed, and we really feel this joy, this great support of the resurrected
 Lord.
 So now it's a time of prayer, it's a time of repentance also, the Jesus prayer, and
 it's not a time of relaxation and drinking and eating whatever you want, so having said
 this, I want to indicate today some spiritual passions, because very often we neglect, we
 don't see it, we can see some carnal passions, desires, but there is a word, well sometimes
 it's translated as affection, well the word in Greek is idipathia, idipathia comes from
 two words, idone, which means pleasure, and pathia is passion, passion in the ascetic
 sense, in the sense of this perverted power of the soul, there are eight main passions,
 and so idipathia is finding pleasure in satisfying passion.
 It's easy to understand when it's a gluttony or it's lust, it's more easy to understand,
 we allow for the passion to overtake us, overwhelm us, and we sort of draw out some pleasure
 from that, sinful pleasure.
 And however, the exact same principle works for the spiritual passions, and it's much
 more difficult to notice, it slips our attention, and even harder to notice it in yourself.
 Each passion deserves a lot of discussion, so today I'll just point out some of them
 and say a little bit more about anger.
 First of all, I want to go to read Romans, Apostle Paul, letter to the Romans, chapter
 125 to 26.
 Let's take a look, he is talking about the Gentiles, pagans, he says "they changed the
 truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the creator,
 who is blessed forever, amen.
 For this cause God gave them up unto vile passions" and then he goes on and he is explaining
 some passions, some carnal stuff and perverted stuff, but this is true for all the passions.
 We really slip into passions when we separate ourselves from God, there is some alienation,
 some kind of distancing from the Lord, and we are slipping into passions.
 Very often we think that you have a passion, you are a sinner, you are sinning because
 you are a sinner, because you have a weakness for alcohol or you have a weakness for women
 or for anything else, and this is your problem, you need to work on this problem.
 Well, usually this is already a symptom, but this is not the root cause.
 As we see from Apostle Paul, the root cause is our separation from the Lord.
 We are separating ourselves from the Lord, and as a result we are giving over to these
 passions, and now they rule, they dominate our thoughts, our body, our heart, everything
 is dominated by these passions.
 Whoever sins is a slave of sin, so we need to heal the root cause, and this is why the
 spiritual life and Jesus prayer is so important, because they help us enter into continuous
 unity with the Lord, to have this repentant heart all the time, and not to lose this standing
 in front of the Lord, always following Him, taking up the cross and following Him.
 For this purpose, we need the prayer of the heart, we need the Jesus prayer, we need the
 whole dedication, our love towards the Lord has to be alive and bringing fruit, otherwise
 you know all this stuff, all these passions, they just come up, it's like dust, if you
 don't clean up the room, it's going to be dusty, it's just the law, if you don't do
 the field, it's going to have the weed growing in them, it just happens like that, you cannot
 do anything about it unless you take care about this, unless you have a love towards
 God in your heart, and it's bringing fruit continuously every day.
 So it's not only about pagans, the same thing goes for Israel of those days, we're going
 to redesign in just a moment, and also that's true for Christians, we also slip into scenes
 and it's not enough just to, in confession, just to list, I guess, in this distance, we
 need to see the root cause, and some of these root causes are in the spiritual passions
 which we don't notice, so yes, a lot of different passions, selfishness, despondency, ambition
 in a bad sense, this love of power, it's greed, it's accusation, it's vainglory,
 proudness, anger, many spiritual passions which we don't really notice, but if you take
 a good look, if you can look into yourself with attention, you will see that whenever
 you get into some of those passions, you are actually extracting some pleasure from it,
 and this is also a sinful pleasure, so it's also some form of Evipathia, receiving pleasure
 out of passion.
 Of course it may seem strange why it's so pleasant to submit to passions, why it's
 so pleasing to fast, to pray, because of our fallen nature, we are fallen, we are alienated
 from the Lord, otherwise we would find joy in prayer, and in righteousness, in holiness,
 in all kinds of virtue, we would find pleasure, and it's not just nice words, it's reality
 that is out there. This is our goal. So, passions, we can divide them, actually not only carnal
 and spiritual, there's also psychological, or you can call them soul, they belong not
 to the spirit, but to the soul. These passions, for example, communication, we want to talk
 about the chat for hours with some people, make jokes, or hear some news, this and that.
 It's narcissism, looking at yourself, I'm so nice. Anger. Of course it's not so easy
 to draw the borderline, where is carnal, where is soul, where is spiritual, it's all just
 for convenience. This is not math, this is not hardcore science. It's just for convenience,
 we put it in different categories. The spiritual would be like blasphemy, actually the spirit
 of Pharisees is also a spiritual one, they pretend that you are nice, but it's actually
 fake, and you don't even see it sometimes. Because you think that you are holy, you are
 destroying other people's lives. Accusing them, judging them, and many other things.
 One passion that I want to say a bit more about is the passion of anger. And very often
 we have to really scold someone when we notice that I got angry. But actually we have that,
 we carry that with us all the time. When we judge others, when we complain about weather,
 when we get irritated about some person on the subway station, or somewhere else, in
 the show, when we read the news and we say "oh, these are bad people", because it's all
 about hatred. Actually when you hear news, or when you listen to some news on TV or be
 it on YouTube, most of the time it's some dissemination of passions. We have all kinds
 of passions in there. So if you want your weed in your heart to grow fast, you just
 listen to the news and TV and YouTube and all that stuff all the time. That's gonna
 make you full of all kinds of passions. Vain glory, you're judging this, you're praising
 that, you're hoping for this. It's fake. It's fake salvation, fake pleasure, fake values.
 Everything you find there, most of it will be fake in terms of when we talk about the
 Lord and true salvation and true grace. There it will be all about money that's replacing
 the grace. And that's the main religion now. And that's the spiritual. This worshipping
 of money, of mammon, is actually mammonism, you can call it. It's actually much worse
 than paganism of those days. Because paganism has some human nature to it, but this one
 has nothing human, it completely kills humans. It makes them just functions and obstacles
 or economic agents. And that's why people don't really know what is love, what is compassion.
 So one thing that these news are propagating is all kinds of anger, both in the war, in
 economics and in politics. So depending on where you are and what's your interest, you
 would be drawn by some of these. Some people are all about war issues. They would be either
 on this side or on that side. They will be in some kind of hatred for someone and great
 support for someone else. Some people are in sports and it's the same. Hatred for someone
 and glorification, worshipping someone else. Same with this show, entertainment. Idols,
 they call them idols, because people worship them. And the same goes for politics. You
 always are fighting with someone, some are enemies. It's all about this anger. And this
 is so attractive because people find pleasure in anger. This is really weird, but this is
 what it is. And this is what makes people so dependent on news, on gadgets, on social
 media, because they want to feed this passion all the time. And they become blinded. And
 we can now read Isaiah. Let's take a look. Isaiah 6.9-10. The Lord speaks to Isaiah.
 And this is now about the Israel of that time. And Israel of that time is the new Israel
 of our days. So this is criticism about us. And the Lord said, Go and tell these people,
 Hear you indeed, but understand not. And see you indeed, but perceive not. Make the heart
 of these people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their
 eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert and be healed
 by me. And we know the Lord himself repeats these words in Matthew 13.15. So these are
 very important words. And this is about us. Okay. This is about us. We don't want to listen
 to our conscience. We replace the living faith and love with rituals, with, I don't know,
 some other secular activities. And people see that this is fake. This is just a picture.
 There is no real love. There is no real relationship with the Lord. And there is so many so-called
 Christians who are like that, including priests and monks and bishops, which is a great risk
 for the church. For the church, not as an institution, but the church as a whole, as
 the body of Christ. And let's see what happens if we don't fix it. Okay. Then said I, "Lord,
 how long?" And he answered, "Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses
 without man, and the land be utterly desolate. And the Lord have removed man far away, and
 there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land. But yet in it shall be a tenth,
 and it shall return and shall be eaten as a tail tree and as an oak, whose substance
 is in them when they cast their leaves. So the Holy See shall be the substance thereof."
 Okay, this is a little difficult translation, but the meaning is that it's all going to
 be desolate. It's all going to be destroyed, swiped, wiped away, okay? But a tenth remains.
 The Holy Ones, those who remained faithful, loyal to the Lord till the end, who are ready
 to go till the end to be with the Lord, who preserved their hearts attached to the Lord,
 full of joy, full of love, full of eagerness, search for the truth. And these are the ones
 who will be preserved. And everything else will be wiped away, okay? And now people are
 talking about famine and pandemics and wars and many other things. And that's going to
 come big time, okay? Not because, I don't know, some presidents are crazy because some
 weapons are... No, because people left the Lord. I'm not talking about all the mankind,
 but the biggest problem is the Christians who are leaving the Lord. This is the biggest
 problem. Other people, they have less responsibility. The greatest responsibility is upon Christians,
 and even greater one on the Orthodox Christians. So, dear brothers and sisters, let us repent,
 let us seek the Lord with all our heart, let us stay faithful to Him no matter what. Receive
 His grace of resurrection, stay firm in His holiness, and bring the testimony of His love
 to the end of the world. Amen. God bless, dear brothers and sisters.
