 To you, brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 Today, I want to begin a very important topic, which is also closely related to the Holy
 Resurrection, Pascha, that we are celebrating.
 On Pascha, Christ appeared to disciples, and he told them, "Peace be with you."
 And he blowed upon them and said, "Receive you, the Holy Spirit."
 And they received the Holy Spirit, and they understood the prophecies.
 And from that point, they became apostles.
 And also, we remember that after Pentecost, we are now reading the Acts of the Apostles
 during this time, and apostles, they went and they've done testimony about Jesus Christ,
 and the scribes and Pharisees, they were trying to prevent them.
 They were trying to stop them, and they said that they are trying to prevent us, but the
 Lord has given blessing to those who receive the Holy Spirit, and that they cannot withstand
 the Holy Spirit.
 They cannot be against, they cannot prevent the Holy Spirit from doing what he is doing
 through people.
 And the full Acts of the Apostles, this book, is about the fruits of the Holy Spirit, which
 was poured abundantly upon the early church, and the Holy Spirit lives in the church until
 today.
 And this is why during these very blessed days, I want to think together with you about
 blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 What is it?
 Why the Lord said that any sin may be forgiven, but not the sin of the blasphemy against the
 Holy Spirit.
 What is it?
 Today we will begin this topic, we will uncover this topic, and in my next video I want to
 go deeper.
 I want to bring more examples and more theological reflection of the Holy Fathers, and ascetic
 understanding of this topic.
 But today let us begin this topic so that we have a better understanding, and that we
 can see this sin, be careful not to slip into it ourselves, and to see it in the world,
 to be able to distinguish what it is, because it is much worse than any other sin.
 So let's read Apostle Mark, Gospel of Mark, chapter 3, 28-30.
 The situation here is that the Lord is healing those demon-possessed, he is chasing out demons,
 and the scribes and Pharisees, they come and say that he is doing it by the power of Beelzebub,
 of the prince of demons, and the Lord tells them these words, he says "Amen, I say unto
 you, all sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies wherewithsoever they
 shall blaspheme.
 But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit has never forgiveness, but is subject
 to eternal damnation, because they said he has an unclean spirit."
 He tells them that this is unforgivable, this cannot be forgiven.
 First of all, why?
 Isn't any sin can be forgiven?
 If we repent, the sin can be forgiven, is it not so?
 Yes.
 Because the translation here sometimes is not really delivering the meaning of the original.
 And the meaning of the original is that those who do blaspheme against the Holy Spirit,
 they cannot be forgiven, ever.
 But this means that if they are still in that state, if this is what they are, if this is
 what their heart, their disposition, their attitude towards the Holy Spirit.
 It's not that whoever has done it once cannot be forgiven forever, no.
 It means that those who are sinning against the Holy Spirit, their sin cannot be forgiven.
 This cannot be forgiven.
 They cannot be forgiven, and even if you pray for them, even if the Lord is offering them
 their His mercy, but they will not be forgiven.
 Why?
 Because they reject this mercy.
 Okay, let's go step by step.
 So, the first understanding, the historical or literal meaning of this passage would tell
 us that if there are fruits of the Holy Spirit, okay, these fruits could be various, like
 chasing out demons, or it may be virtuous life, or it may be some fruits of the Holy
 Spirit, the saints, it could be the life of the Church, all the fruits of the Church when
 the Church was able to proclaim the truth and to do the testimony of love, or the holy
 martyrs were driven by the Holy Spirit.
 Well, there are many numerous fruits of the Holy Spirit, and if you attribute these fruits
 to demons or to the devil, if you're flipping this over, and actually, intuitively, you
 may be feeling that it's coming from God, that it could not come from anywhere else,
 but still, because of your wretched, evil heart, because of enmity, jealousy, you are
 attributing this to the demons, to your blasphemy, your trying to humiliate, to say something
 bad about this, okay, this disrespect and negative words or attitude against something
 which is holy, which is true, which is just, okay, this becomes the blasphemy against the
 Holy Spirit.
 And there are numerous examples of that, okay, let's say somebody is Christian, he has a
 virtuous life, he came out of sin, and now he is living very humble, very virtuous, chaste
 way, and other people, they see that he doesn't do those crazy things that he used to do,
 he is quiet, he is humble, they would say he is demon-possessed.
 They understand that that's false, that's not true, but they still are trying to go
 against this, okay, they still have this satanic zeal of rejecting the very fruits of the Holy
 Spirit, of saying something negative, something bad about it, so that other people would doubt,
 they would not respect this, they would be diverted away from this holiness and virtue.
 So this kind of attitude, it's not just sin, it's not just you go and sin, you are fighting,
 you are blaspheming against the manifested fruits of the Holy Spirit.
 This is the great sin.
 Okay, what else we can say?
 There is also one fundamental thing that I want to say about this.
 The Holy Spirit is called the life-giving Spirit.
 The Holy Spirit brings life, brings true life.
 Those who are dead spiritually, the Lord told his disciples, let those dead men bury their
 dead men.
 So everyone who doesn't live with the Lord, who is not interested in the kingdom of heaven,
 he is dead, because he doesn't have the Holy Spirit.
 The Holy Spirit doesn't work in him, in her.
 So the life-giving Spirit, the life-giving Spirit, he gives life and brings people out
 of death.
 The Holy Spirit makes us united with Christ.
 The Holy Spirit brings consolation.
 The Holy Spirit brings hope and light, and he is calling everyone to salvation.
 This is this breath of the Lord, and it is God himself, and they don't have it.
 Those who don't have it don't want it.
 They are in darkness, in the shadow of death, in the shackles of sin.
 So the Holy Spirit brings salvation, and brings everyone, calls everyone to salvation.
 So if you reject the Holy Spirit, if you are against the Holy Spirit, you are rejecting
 salvation.
 You are rejecting healing, true life.
 Your life doesn't have light, it's only darkness, and you go against this.
 And this state cannot be forgiven because you don't want forgiveness.
 You reject forgiveness, you reject salvation.
 So the Lord, he will not be able to save you against your will.
 So this is the most terrible, most dangerous, when the person chooses to go against salvation.
 He doesn't want life, he doesn't want light, he doesn't want healing.
 The humans, they can't become such demon-like that they would be going against it, even
 when they see the message from the Holy Spirit.
 They see that here they should repent.
 This is the evident truth, salvation, righteousness, coming from God himself, but they say, "No,
 no, I don't want all of this."
 This is all, and he uses bad words, okay, I don't want to use it.
 This is the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, rejecting salvation.
 May the Lord keep us from such demonic possession.
 Unfortunately, a great number of people are like this.
 Unfortunately, they have not turned their path away from this wickedness.
 And this is much worse than just slipping into some sin, okay, and getting into something,
 being deceived by the demon and slipping into something, okay.
 Eventually any sin can lead you to the blessing of the Holy Spirit, if you remain there long
 enough in that sinful state.
 So the next time I want to go deeper, I want to tell you more about the Holy Fathers, what
 they have said about this in terms of theology, in terms of ascotism, and to bring some more
 examples from our daily life, because this is, you can find it everywhere, and you can
 find it in many religions, in many sects, in many heresies.
 This is not just the one instance that is mentioned in the gospel, when the Lord said
 those words.
 So, you know, please think about the things which I've said today, and next time we will
 pick up from here.
 May the Lord give you joy of his resurrection, and his grace and blessing be with you.
 Christ is with you, indeed he is with you.
