 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen.
 I haven't recorded any videos for a while because I was on a mission trip to Russia
 to fix some church matters and also to initiate one mission project for internal mission within
 Russia.
 And some people ask me how come an Orthodox country would need a missionary to go from
 Taiwan to develop mission within Russia.
 Well that might sound funny, but as a matter of fact this is true.
 The priests in Russia are so few that even the Orthodox who go to church sometimes don't
 get enough attention, enough care by the priests, leave alone those who are outside of the church.
 And now it's the majority of population, it's about maybe ninety-eight percent of people
 who don't go to church.
 And even people who do go to church, they would need some mission done because very
 often they don't know why they go to church.
 And the mission zeal among the priests in Russia is not very high also.
 Of course there are missionary priests, but they are very few.
 And priests are few, well actually I don't know if you know many train drivers, the driver
 who drive train, that's a profession which is not very common.
 Well I will tell you that there are fewer priests than train drivers in Russia.
 So it's actually not a very popular job and not many people become priests.
 It may seem a lot, but it's quite few.
 And of course mission should be done not only by priests, it should be done by lay people,
 but there is a lack of mission initiatives.
 So one of such initiatives was proposed and I decided to go forward and organize, help
 organizing this mission project and it was quite successful and I'm very hopeful that
 it will have success and will bring fruits.
 And one of the reasons why the Russian society is departing further and further away from
 go, well first is the materialism from the Soviet times, and also is this consumerism
 and the digital brainwashing that is reformatting the minds of people, especially the younger
 generation, which are separated from tradition, from history, from the church, very often
 from morals, and there is a gap, generation gap, there is a big gap, the youth and the
 church and there is a need for this bridge.
 So there are many issues going on there, so I found it necessary and worthwhile going
 there and helping to initiate that project.
 But today the topic that I want to talk about is related to this, it's not this mission
 but it's very closely related, this is the topic of freedom, because very often we hear
 this word in political rhetoric, in cultural, in everywhere, freedom, liberation, human
 rights, of course this is our topic, because in the church we are talking about freedom,
 the apostle Paul tells that we are free, that the truth made us free, and even the slave
 may be free spiritually, and the free man may be slave spiritually, so vice versa.
 So the freedom that people are talking about very often goes against the freedom that is
 given to us by God, and today I just want to give an overview of what we are talking
 about.
 Let's recall the parable of the prodigal son.
 The prodigal son, he wanted freedom from family, from tradition, from his father, he wanted
 economic freedom, so he took what he is supposed to get, it was according to the right, and
 he went off, he went to another country, freedom, cosmopolitan, cosmopolitan views, everywhere
 is your homeland, and as long as you have money you can go anywhere and can afford anything,
 so this is pursuit, pursuit of personal freedoms, so he went and pursued his personal freedom,
 and what happened, two things happened, one thing happened is that he lived a very corrupt
 moral life, he lived with those prostitutes and corrupt completely in adultery fornication,
 and then another thing that happened is that he wasted all his money and he got into economic
 and political slavery, because he had to offer himself as a servant, as a worker, basically
 as a slave to one of the rulers of that land, and that symbolizes devil, mama, if you want,
 so this ruler, this tyrant, this despot, he was ruling, he was telling him what to do,
 and he was treating him as a slave, as garbage, so he had to eat with those pigs, that stuff
 that pigs are eating, and it was a miserable life, so in both ways, both politically and
 morally he was enslaved, morally he was enslaved by his passions, by his carnal desires, by
 his flesh, so what happens, what happens with humanity, from the time of the Renaissance
 we hear about political emancipation, that humans have to be free, liberated from any
 tyranny, from any monarchy, from any hierarchy, so we have all those revolutions, you know,
 we have capitalist revolution, we have industrial revolution, then we have cultural and sexual
 revolutions in the 20th century, well, let's begin from the political revolutions, these
 political revolutions, they seem to give you some human rights, democracy, you are able
 to vote, you are able to do this and that, but actually, through propaganda, there is
 a total control of whom people vote for, and this democracy becomes just a tool of manipulating
 these masses, and people by gaining this so-called right, individual personal right, they think
 egoistically, they think basically that I am the center of decision-making, this comes
 from reformation also, and also this is basically anthropolatria, okay, anthropolatria means
 worshipping of man, this man-centered world, which switched from the God-centered world.
 Well, this man-centered world, that man becomes the measure of all things, brings these societies
 to atomization and decomposition, and those constitutions, they become tribunes for all
 kinds of debates and all kinds of quarrels, and there are two ways out, okay, there are
 two outcomes, I better say not two ways out, there are two outcomes, one outcome is this
 total war, that everybody is at war for his own interest, and another outcome is a levia
 fund, levia fund is a big government or big system that makes everybody part of this system,
 it can be either externally imposed or it can be brainwashed, okay, but it's something
 that makes you just a part of that big mechanism, and you don't belong to yourself anymore,
 but this also is an outcome of this individualization, this egoistic, self-centered world, that everybody
 is self-centered, all traditions are destroyed, all values, all cultures, everything is just
 destroyed, only some decorations are left, but the reality is over, it's finished, so
 eventually we get to that political slavery, but this also brings about economic commercialization
 of everything, everything becomes, you can buy and sell, this is another outcome, any
 values, there is no higher values than money, you can buy anything with money, you can count,
 you can calculate anything, this is another, this comes, penetrates into minds of all people,
 all societies, former knights who had some righteousness, who had some honor and some
 values, who were heroes maybe, now they become just traders or bankers, they can sell anything,
 they can buy anything, so this is one development, but it's not the worst, it's not the worst,
 now I'm generalizing, but I'm just describing big trends, big trends, what's going on in
 the world, even the worst thing is emancipation from humanity, this is the next step, the
 next step, and this was actually the dream of Marx and socialists, and now we're getting
 there actually, not back then, but now, what is this? This is when you don't want to be
 human, don't want to be determined by anything, by your gender, by ethics, by some moral norms
 of society, by your intellect, you don't want to upgrade from AI, you want to be united
 with machine, synchronized, you don't want to be determined by your genes, you want to
 control your genes, they say also evolution, you want to control your own evolution, well
 actually they won't ask you, as a matter of fact, they will just tell you, you need to
 be vaccinated or do something else, and you just have to go into this brave new world.
 So this transhumanist, and this completely inhuman project has a goal, what goal is that?
 The human who is very proud of his abilities, he becomes blinded, and he loses even control
 of who he is, he loses his personality and he loses the image of God, which is built
 into him, and when the image of God is lost, he gains the image of a beast. He just has
 these passions and these dark, evil powers of a fallen nature that are driving him. For
 example, when you play a game, now so many people are playing games, you completely lose
 yourself, you're immersed inside the logic of that game, and you're either gaining some
 treasures or you're killing someone or you're doing something, you're out of who you are,
 you're inside that virtual world, and it will be more and more of that. Virtualization,
 digitalization, it's all going in there. Eventually, such people will not be persons, they will
 be just some agents, some elements of this system, they will be completely empty spiritually,
 and there are so many people like that already, if you look around, and this is the outcome
 of the so-called freedom, emancipation, and they will be merged into one big scheme, and
 this scheme is the kingdom of Antichrist. They will also have one mind, one body, but
 it won't be body of Christ, it will be body of Antichrist. This will be the new Babylon.
 This is the big picture, and I think now it may be more evident to you how far this is
 from the Christian freedom, from the freedom that we gain in Christ, freedom from passions,
 freedom from illusion, from determinism. From this world, we're not determined by this world,
 even though we are in this world, but we don't belong to this world. We are alienated spiritually
 from this world, supposed to be. This is what we're supposed to be, if we're good Christians.
 It's not about the egoism, it's about ministry, self-sacrifice for the good of others. It's
 seeking life in Christ, not in some fake pleasures that are delivered by this fallen world of
 delusion. This is the freedom given by grace, not by money, not by some political rights.
 So, this spiritual freedom and this egoistic liberal emancipation is completely different
 to opposing things. There you become more and more demon-like, demon-possessed. You
 may think that you are the wisest, the center of the world. In Russia we call this the syndrome
 of Lenin. Lenin, he thought that he is the smartest, and he criticized everyone else,
 and then everybody had to worship him. So, this syndrome of Lenin brings you to Christ,
 to virtue, to humbleness, to peace in your heart, to communication with the Lord and
 healing of your soul, finding and manifesting the image of God in you, and gaining the likeness
 of God. These are completely different paths, and there should be no confusion between them.
 May the Lord help you on this path, give you joy of his salvation, give you the power of
 the resurrection that can revive you, that can set you on this path, so that may all
 of us overcome all the delusions, all the temptations, all the brokenness of this world.
 Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters. Christ is risen. Amen.
