 Dear brothers and sisters, last night we had a divine service here in Gaussian, and this time we are in the celebration of the ascension of the Lord, which began last Thursday.
 And now it is a very special time from ascension to the Pentecost. It's 10 days from the ascension to the Pentecost.
 During these 10 days, we deeply think about what it means to be sent, to be commissioned by the Lord to do testimony.
 Because on the ascension, let's recall, He said that He is leaving us, He has accomplished everything He had to accomplish, He has done the work of God the Father.
 And now, after explaining to the disciples what has happened, and from the prophets, He described everything that was about Him, that they were talking about His death and His resurrection.
 Now, He is ascending into the heavens and leaving us. So, He is giving us the mission to continue what He has done.
 And also, He says that He will be with us until the end of the age. He will be with us so we are not left as orphans.
 And this is a mystery. He is both leaving us and He is with us. As I said in my last video that our human reasoning cannot comprehend many things about faith.
 This is one of them. We cannot comprehend it with our mind. But we can comprehend it with our faith, with our heart.
 We can see that He is leaving because now the main task that He has to do is death. And now the heavens are opened and everyone is invited to enter into the heavens.
 And now it is our task to bring this message to the whole world.
 And on the ascension, when He has said these things, and He blessed everyone, and He is rising into the heavens, all the disciples, they were looking into the heavens and they were just standing there looking into the sky.
 And at that time two angels appeared and they told them, "Man of Galilee, why are you standing here? In the same way as Christ has risen, He will come back on the clouds."
 Sorry the cell phone fell. I will continue. So in the same way as He has risen, He will come back on the clouds. And now it is our task to bring the message of salvation to the ends of the world.
 We see that this world is limited. This span from the ascension till the end of the world, this span is limited. Well, from creation of the first man to the end is also limited.
 So this limit of the world history, of the history of mankind as we know it, is limited in the same way as our own life is limited.
 Everyone's life, born this year, died this year. This is just that lifespan that we have, and we have to accomplish something during this lifespan.
 This is how we are created, to be able to do things within this lifespan. And it is good to know that the whole world is the same.
 It has that lifespan that is limited. It is not going to go forever. So we need to feel that responsibility.
 It is our common house, this world, created world. And humanity is one family, you can say, all children of Adam.
 And now we have some task. There should be something that has to be accomplished in this world, within this time frame, that is given to us by the Lord.
 And what is this? What is this task, and what is the role of Christians, and what is going on right now? This is something I wanted to share with you today.
 I would begin in this way. First of all, everything has been accomplished, that had to be accomplished by the Lord.
 So, the Lord, He was crucified, He died, He rose, He resurrected on the third day, and He ascended into heaven.
 So now, the heavens are open. Now the salvation is offered to everyone. The feast, this eschatological feast has begun, and everyone is invited. And there is nothing that can stop you from entering into this union.
 From breaking off any shackles of sin, darkness, evil, you name it. You can break it off, you can get free.
 And the task of the apostles is to bring this message to everyone. People, now you are invited. No need to wait, no need to be afraid of anything. You are invited and the Lord is waiting for you.
 You need, what do you need? Okay, you need to listen to His words and follow His path. And you will not lose your freedom, you will not lose the joy.
 No, you will become spiritually free, and you will gain the true joy if you step on this path. And you will be carrying the living God inside of you, and you will become immortal, and fearless, and reach all kinds of abundance.
 As Apostle Paul said, we don't have anything, but we possess everything. This is also beyond the regular mind, okay?
 So now, however, we see that in the beginning there were those few disciples, and they, after ascension, they gathered in a small house and they prayed inside that small house.
 And the whole world was sitting in darkness. In paganism, and even the Jews, they were all in darkness. They did not want to receive the true salvation.
 And prophet Isaiah said that Israel has not known and does not know God, okay? They had the law, they had the temple, but they did not really know God.
 They did not know that God is loving Father. They thought that God is Creator, well, He is Creator, He is Almighty, He is the King of Universe, but He is also loving Father.
 And He sacrificed Himself for us, and He came in meekness and humbleness, and He did not retaliate against sinners and against evil.
 He taught us what it means to be pleasing to the Lord, okay? He told us great mysteries of the Holy Trinity and of the piety that is accepted by the Lord.
 And it was quite different from the understanding of the Jews of the Old Testament, which was just a shadow, it was just a preparation, but now the fullness of truth came and was revealed by the Lord.
 And now only those who received Christ, they gained knowledge of God. Christ Himself, He said, "Only they, those people who received my words, they are thine, and all thine is mine, and all mine is thine.
 And as we are one, they will be one. As I am one with you, my Father, these people who received you, they witnessed that you have chosen them, and that the stamp of your chosenness is upon them.
 And those who love me, they will be loved by you." And it's not the same love as God loves everyone. Yes, He does love everyone, but this is very different.
 These people are pleasing to the Lord, what they do, what they think, okay? And it's our goal, brothers and sisters, to become more and more pleasing to the Lord.
 And to be pleasing to Him, we recall that on the ascension, we are commissioned to become His witnesses, okay? To bring the whole world to this faith.
 And now I want to share with you why in our times, okay, when it seems so obvious that, okay, why stay in darkness, okay? Why lose your time, okay, being in deception, being slave for your passions, etc., and doing empty stuff, okay?
 Millions of people watching some football games, it is empty, it's completely useless, and almost, okay, majority of people are every day are doing some useless stuff, and they are obsessed about this.
 Why this happens? Why there is this total blindness, even though the Lord has opened the gates of heaven and gave everything so that people can enter into heaven?
 Okay, I will share with you two things that happened with me just recently, okay? One happened in Russia, where I went, okay, I came back a week ago, and another here in Taiwan, okay? I had a dialogue with one of our faithful.
 Well, in Russia, you see, it seems to be Orthodox country, gay Christian country, but it's not.
 Just on the street, one young girl, maybe 20 plus, approached me, and she said that, "Father, I see you're a priest. I'm in a charismatic community, and I feel that there is something wrong with this community, okay?
 We're doing things which are not come from God, and I feel really strange, and also I feel that the truth is in the Orthodox faith, but I don't know anything about Orthodox faith, and I don't know anyone, and I don't know how to approach what to do.
 So I saw you, so I decided to come over and ask you a few questions." So she asked me some questions about faith. We had a dialogue, and eventually she decided to leave that charismatic sect and come to the true church.
 And she came to a few meetings that I was organizing during those days, and met other Orthodox, and now she is getting ready for baptism.
 She announced to all those members of the sect, because they were trying to pull her back, and she said, "No, okay? Finished. Okay, I'm out, okay?"
 Very brave, and by the grace of the Lord, she got out. But most people, they don't get out of there. Why? Because she explained it.
 She said, "Father, you see, now the society, and people of her age, we don't know anything about religion at all, okay?
 It's completely foreign. We don't know anything about Christianity, about Orthodox Christianity, we don't know anything about other religions, Buddhism, Islam, we don't know anything, okay?
 And this is why we are grasped by these sects, who can see that, okay, you have some psychological problem, and many people nowadays have psychological problems, because of all these social issues, okay?
 Broken families, okay, unhealthy life, lack of education, and many, many things, okay? You know, like, how many people now have depression, sit on drugs, on alcohol, or something else, okay?
 So they see that you have some psychological issue, and they come, and they make you addicted. They enslave you even more, because they say that we are your salvation.
 Okay, you have to be with us, and we don't totally control your mind, your emotions, your everything, your family life, we control everything, your money, and the people become very much dependent.
 And they use all kinds of techniques to make you a slave, and after that, you're hooked, okay? You cannot really, you would need some miracle to get out.
 And most people, they cannot do that, and she says that she has a great pity for those regular members who are there, who are still there.
 She doesn't have any pity for their superiors, because they are those who are controlling all that darkness.
 Remember, Apostle Paul, he said that our fight is not against flesh and blood, not against people, but against those powers of darkness of this world.
 This world has its darkness, all kinds of darkness. It could be materialism, consumerism, modernism, New Age, it could be anything that is blocking God, that is coming in front of this window, this gates of heaven.
 It is blocking these gates, and say, "Look, I am your salvation. There is nothing else. You have to come here. This is anti-Christian thing. Those are anti-Christ.
 They say, "Yoga will solve your problems. Just do yoga, or Zen Buddhism, or New Age, or something else, or just buy stuff. You will be satisfied.
 Entertainment, drugs, TV shows, whatever it is, it would be. This is what is going on.
 I was quite surprised just a few days later when I came to Taiwan, a very similar thing happened.
 You know, how different Russia and Taiwan, but exactly the same thing happened. One of our faithful, she shared with me, she is also about that age, she may be a bit older, but that doesn't matter.
 She told me, "Father, you know, here in Taiwan, even the Protestants are becoming more and more charismatic.
 Even those traditional Protestants who used to be reading Bible, doing some research, and long prayers, or some traditions like liturgy in Lutheran churches, now they all go to the charismatic.
 Either they just leave their church and become charismatic, or they have some charismatic movements within their original churches.
 So, this is a tendency. And she told me that, "You know, Father, we have complete blindness. We don't know anything about the true faith, about the true Christianity.
 Taiwan is deprived of knowledge of true Christianity. People don't know anything about it. And that's why they are grasped by all those sects.
 And I was surprised how similar this is to what's going on in Russia. And people, it's not that they are forbidden, like, say, in China, where it's forbidden.
 They have this firewall, and they try to block any access to such information. Here in Taiwan, you're not blocked.
 But there is a great amount of noise about anything. About tasty noodles, about some singers, about all kinds of stuff.
 You're bombarded from everywhere, from your YouTube channels, from social media, from the news, from TV, all kinds of stuff.
 And it's also totally empty. It has no content in terms of salvation, in terms of true meaning.
 It's completely encompassed in this world, this perishable, this limited world. And people cannot think outside of the box.
 And they don't find that way. So, all this stuff is brought in to block the real message, the real message of salvation, to find that way to the feast of the Lord.
 So, this task is not so easy. And without the Holy Spirit, we will not be able to do anything.
 So, we need to see clearly what is our goal, what is the challenge. We need to know that we ourselves will not succeed only if the Lord works through us.
 For example, in Russia, in Moscow, He just placed me in that spot where that young girl was who needed this message.
 I was not actively looking for opportunities, bringing some brochures or something. No, I was just there.
 So, we just need to be there, but we need to be ready wherever such an opportunity comes.
 We need to be ready spiritually. We need to have full understanding of our mission.
 And we have to spiritually prepare ourselves to dare to witness about the Kingdom of Heaven,
 to dare to witness about the resurrection, and that the power of resurrection can resurrect
 your heart in the same way as it has resurrected my heart. It brought it out of sickness, out of darkness,
 out of blindness, out of slavery. May the Lord give us the Holy Spirit so that we can overcome
 any darkness within our hearts, that we can become worthy servants of Him, and we can do this testimony.
 We can bring rich fruits of faith that will be pleasing to Him, and that will help this world,
 these people who are still grasped by the darkness of this world, to come out of darkness
 and find the true life and salvation. May the Lord's blessing, may the Holy Spirit be upon every one of you.
 Amen. God bless.
