 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Pentecost!
 The Holy Church is celebrating the Pentecost, or the Feast of the Holy Trinity, and we remember
 that the main event is the coming down of the Holy Spirit upon the apostles and the
 birth of the Church.
 And this happened after 10 days of prayer, when after Ascension, the Lord, on the Ascension,
 the Lord told the disciples to stay in Jerusalem and to wait until another comforter will come
 down.
 And this comforter is the Holy Spirit.
 And we remember very well how that happened, that they were praying, and in the morning
 during the prayer, there was a noise and wind, like a wind, like a typhoon or tornado coming
 down from the roof, and then fire dividing into flames, and those flames were coming
 down above the head of every apostle.
 And then they gained a very special power of preaching the Gospel, preaching the Resurrection
 of Christ, and the salvation to all the nations.
 And everybody could understand what they were saying, and they had both the full understanding
 and the courage and the ability to deliver this message to all people.
 And we have this picture, and very often we don't really understand how is this related
 to us, to us today, because maybe we will not be changed so much, and all of a sudden
 we will gain some supernatural abilities, or there will be some shining light coming
 out from us, or flames of fire coming down upon us.
 So we think, well, maybe it's not about me, but let us think very deeply, what does it
 mean for every one of us?
 What is the meaning of the comforter?
 Who is the comforter?
 Why is he called a comforter?
 And we'll see that this relates to every one of us, directly, in every aspect of life.
 Well, first of all, let's recall 1 Corinthians 7.40, where the apostle Paul is telling to
 those widows who lost their husband that if they don't get married again, they will be
 more blessed than they would otherwise be.
 And at the end he says, "And I think that I have the Holy Spirit."
 So he's able to distinguish how blessed is someone going to be if he does this or that.
 And what does it mean to be blessed or more blessed?
 Usually we think, I'm either saved or I'm not saved, I either sin or I don't sin.
 No, the New Testament is all about being blessed, is all about being blessed or even more blessed,
 and not about this minimal cut off.
 You can do this or you cannot do this.
 So this blessedness comes from where?
 We see that here in the 1 Corinthians, it comes from sacrificing, sacrificing your earthly
 joy of having another family, you sacrifice this to focus on the Lord, on faith.
 And this sacrifice, which comes from your love towards God, your free choice, will bring
 you greater blessedness than otherwise would be.
 Both are blessed.
 The widow who marries again will be blessed if she lives as a Christian, but those widows
 who stay in chastity with the Lord, dedicating their whole time, life, heart to the Lord,
 they will be more blessed.
 Of course, if they stay Christian, if they fail and go into sin, they won't be blessed.
 That's implied.
 This free sacrifice gives you the Holy Spirit.
 This sacrifice allows the Holy Spirit to come down and make you more blessed.
 And this is why the commandments of Christ are not the precepts, do this, don't do that.
 It's all about who are the blessed ones, the nine commandments of blessedness.
 Blessed are the poor in spirit, blessed are those who mourn, blessed are those who persecuted
 for the righteousness of God.
 This is one important point, which I wanted to make.
 The Lord tells to his disciples that another Comforter will come.
 He doesn't say the Holy Spirit will come.
 Do you know why?
 Why does he use the Comforter?
 Because the word spirit can mean breath, breathing, it can mean wind, in Hebrew or in Greek.
 But you cannot talk to wind, you cannot talk to breathing, breath, but you can talk to
 the Comforter.
 He is someone, He is the Comforter.
 The Lord makes an emphasis that one will come, one of the Holy Trinity, the Holy Spirit.
 He will comfort you and He will be with you.
 And not only this, because this is what I want to say later.
 He will do many things to you and on behalf of you.
 And this one, He is called the Comforter.
 So when we say the Comforter, we should be very clear that we are talking to the One
 who is the Comforter.
 The Holy Spirit is not like the Catholic, they say, okay, it's just love between Father
 and Son, between them there is love and this love is the Holy Spirit.
 No, you cannot talk to love, love is between two persons, no, the Holy Spirit is a person.
 So let us be very clear about this, this is something told by Christ Himself.
 So He is Comforter, Parakletos, this word comes from the verb "parakleo" and "parakaleo"
 and it has quite a few meanings, okay, it has the meaning of "to bring comfort, consolation",
 it has a meaning of, in the Greek world in those days, Parakletos would be an attorney
 who would defend you in trial and would prove to the judge that you are not guilty, he will
 try to justify you.
 So this is someone who acts on our behalf, he is our defender and protector, so that's
 why the Lord says that the Holy Spirit is praying on behalf of us with some words that
 cannot be spoken, expressed with our words, it's some mysterious language that He is praying
 on behalf of us to the Lord, to God the Father, and that happens during the prayer, we pray
 and the Holy Spirit is praying on our behalf, this is a great mystery, this is why before
 we begin to pray we always ask the Holy Spirit to come down, without this our prayer is nothing.
 And also He is not defending us like a lawyer whom you hire with money, who just does his
 job, no, He is basically asking, pleading on our behalf as a friend, He is trying to
 plead the judge on our behalf as our friend, and He is also giving us consolation and support
 and encouragement, so the Holy Spirit, when we say Parakletos, is also the one who is
 exhorting or encouraging us or telling us, go forward, you can do it, He gives us the
 strength to have courage, eagerness, motivation, this is another important facet, important
 meaning of this word, when the Lord tells to His disciples, now, cheer, be brave, go
 for it, He tells that to His disciples, He tells that to the paralysed who was healed
 and to other people, so this exhortation, this encouragement is also coming from the
 Holy Spirit, this is what is also meant by the Comforter, and so He also, of course,
 when we know that the Holy Spirit is a breath or a wind, He gives us freshness, He gives
 us renewal, He gives us the force to move on, He enlivens us, He is called the Spirit,
 the Creator of life, or Giver of life, this is why we use the green colour, when we pray
 to the Holy Spirit or refer to the Holy Spirit or the celebration of the Church, we use the
 green colour, because this is the colour of life, of blooming, and also what He does,
 He is a counsellor, that's another meaning of Parakletos, He is consulting us what to
 do in the afflictions that trouble us, okay, we are perplexed, we are in trouble, we are
 in delusion, we are in danger, He is telling us, He is guiding us how to get out of this,
 what is the direction, He both gives us power, consolation, peace, and knowledge, direction,
 guidance of how to get out of this trouble, so in Isaiah, do you remember the seven spirits,
 Isaiah chapter 11, verse 1 to 3, I won't go into it right now, this is another big topic,
 but one of the spirits is the spirit of counsel, these are seven powers of the Holy Spirit,
 not seven separate spirits, seven powers of the Holy Spirit, and one of them is a counsellor,
 so He is giving us consultation, He is telling us what to do, giving us advice, and if, like
 Apostle Paul, He is giving suggestions, and these suggestions tell us how to be more blessed,
 so this is not about you can do it, like precepts, commandments, do this or don't do this, you
 don't need an advisor, you just either do this or you don't do this, okay, you know
 that you are not supposed to do this, you just don't do it, you don't need an extra
 advisor for that, but to be blessed, to be perfect, to always fulfill the God, the will
 of God, and follow His will, and to be pleasing to God the Father, and to take up your cross
 and follow God, follow Christ in everything you do, you need the Spirit of Truth, the
 converter, parakletos, to come down to you and guide you, okay, so usually, you know,
 we are seeking support from some people, relatives, we are seeking guidance, advice from other
 people, mortals, or from internet, or from somewhere else, because we don't have guidance
 from the Holy Spirit, of course, sometimes we do need to get some advice from, okay,
 some earthly stuff, okay, it's just some earthly knowledge, yes, we also seek for that,
 but when we have that choice of how to follow Christ, how to be pleasing to the Lord, how
 to make our life pleasing to Him, you cannot Google that, you cannot just ask your relatives,
 you need to ask God, you need to have His Spirit in you, or at least close to you, so
 that you can hear and He can guide you, He can give you the revelation, the strength,
 and the courage to go on, to do the will of God, so please think about these things.
 And what else I wanted to say, I wanted to say that sin creates a universe, if sin enters
 into your life, passion, some darkness, it will create the whole life, the whole world
 for you, you will live in delusion, no matter what kind of sin that is, okay, carnal sin
 or mental, it can be anything, it will bring you into the state of delusion, you will be
 closed in some shell, if you will, be it heresy, be it some wrong philosophy, be it obsession
 with some goods or comfort, be it family, be it richness, your business, or whatever,
 your hobby, it could be anything, if you are obsessed, possessed by that, that will be
 your world, and you will not be able to think outside of this box, unless the Holy Spirit
 can open up the truth for you, it will break this darkness, because He will guide you out
 of all these things, and reveal to you the will of God, otherwise, there is no other
 choice, the only fake choice that devil is bringing is fake revelation, fake enlightenment,
 because he is Lucifer, he is bringing light, but this light is fake, so, for example, people
 they think, okay, progress, oh, now we are all about progress, science, faith, it's all
 medieval stuff, it's all darkness, superstition, now we have light, okay, or Buddhism, okay,
 you will be enlightened like Buddha, or something else, all of those things are fake, the Lord
 himself said, if the light which is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness, so
 we should not be, we should not be dragged by some kind of fake, okay, some people, okay,
 now I give you a super way of getting rich, now you need to do this, trust in yourself,
 some super techniques, yes, yes, I'm enlightened, I will be smarter than everyone else, all
 those temptations, all those, that spirit of fake enlightenment is the fake light which
 is anti-Christian, because it wants to bring you salvation instead of Christ, without Christ,
 so all of that, it just creates Babylon, it creates fake worlds, okay, metaverse, your
 own metaverse, okay, so please be aware of that, we have to be aware of that, that true
 enlightenment, true undermining of delusion comes from the Holy Spirit and only from Him,
 and there are also fake spiritualities, so many fake spiritualities, some meditations,
 some carnal fantasies, okay, by those fake saints, okay, don't be bought into it, it's
 all artificial, it's all either psychological sickness or demonic delusion, we have to cling
 to Christ and to the true spirituality which is given to us by the Holy Spirit, by the
 Holy Fathers who are driven by the Holy Spirit, may the Spirit of the Lord come down upon
 every one of us, may He enlighten our hearts, give us strength, give us peace, give us eagerness
 to do the testimony of this truth to all the people, you see also when someone or some
 group of people has this delusion, maybe common delusion, they are living in that shell, in
 that world, and someone converts to Christ, they will be hating Him, or at least trying
 to ignore or laugh at Him, marginalize Him, okay, this happens within the family or it
 can happen like with the Jews that they saw, you know, Christians in that way and persecuted
 the church, it can happen with the pagans, okay, that they were also persecuting the
 church, okay, they see that this is a threat, this is a threat to their worldview, this
 is a threat to their their fake salvation, and this is why they consider it like a ulcer
 or like a cancer, okay, they need to get rid of it, this is why the world hates Christ,
 the real Christ, not the fake one, and the church will be persecuted always, so let us
 be aware of that, let us see that this is normal, this is natural, okay, darkness cannot
 sustain light, you can pretend that it's the polite, but in reality it hates Christ and
 true salvation, because it knows that it can undermine everything, and also the Holy Spirit
 in the same way as He defends, protects the righteous ones, He will be accusing and judging
 the sinful world and the sinners, the Lord Himself said, the Holy Spirit, He will condemn
 this world, it's sin, and it's sin that they don't believe in me, you see, so the Holy
 Spirit also does that, it exposes and condemns the sin, and of course they will feel uncomfortable
 if their sin is exposed, and it becomes evident to others that they are evil, that they are
 darkness, so let us be aware of that, let us not fall victim to that darkness with all
 its delusions, and may the Lord forgive all our sins, strengthen our path, and give us
 the light and encouragement on following, on how to follow Him, I mean, Merry Pentecost
 dear brothers and sisters, I mean.
