 Dear brothers and sisters, this coming Friday we will celebrate the feast of the great apostles Peter and Paul.
 We are at the end of the apostolic land and during these holy days of the land we think deeply about the ministry of the apostles.
 And how can we become also members of this great mission participants?
 Because the Lord sent everyone to do the testimony of what? Of his love, of his self-sacrifice,
 of the resurrection that changes lives, that enlightens people, that brings them to this realm of the kingdom of heaven,
 liberating them from every evil darkness and from all the slavery to their own passions, wrong ideas, philosophies.
 So this testimony began with the apostles, this testimony of the church as it was established on the Pentecost.
 And this is why the apostolic land is connected to the Pentecost. It begins from the second Monday after Pentecost.
 So this year it is very short. We had a late Pentecost, so July 7th till July 11th, only 11 days.
 And it may seem to us that apostles are very special type of saints.
 Well actually our ministry today is the same in nature as the ministry of the apostles.
 But there are some differences because in those days the whole world was in darkness and nobody knew about Christ, about resurrection, about the gospel.
 These days, after 20 centuries of preaching, pretty much everyone on this planet knows about the gospel.
 At least something knows about Jesus Christ, at least heard something about him.
 And some people say that now there is no need really for some apostolic or even missionary work,
 because pretty much everywhere people have access to internet and they can do research themselves.
 And even if you come in some place, you would need to tell them something more.
 You cannot just present them with the gospel.
 So today I want to dedicate this video to the very important aspect of modern testimony which every Christian is responsible for.
 We can talk about many things. We can talk about spiritual life, we can talk about ways of doing mission,
 but I want to focus on one thing, on one point today. This point is related to breaking the Babylon.
 In the ancient times the world was enslaved by sin.
 It was as though it was covered by some cupola, by, say, metal jar, and the people were living within this metal jar,
 or cave for that matter, like Plato's, Plato's parable of the cave.
 All the people, and that was not just in their mind, it was spiritual.
 They were enslaved and blinded by sin, passions, and they could not find their way out.
 No philosophy, no religion, nothing was able to liberate them from that.
 But the holy apostles and the message that the Lord, the Savior, gave them.
 This gave them great vision for what they have to do.
 And the Holy Spirit, which they received on the Pentecost, gave them the great dariness and wisdom to do that.
 So they were breaking all kinds of errors, all kinds of enslavement, all those idols were falling, they've crushed.
 Great monarchies and empires were subdued to this very salvific message of Christ.
 Today, the task is the same.
 Essentially, we live in this world of Babylon.
 Despite transmission of the gospel message, the people mainly stepped away.
 They went into apostasy. I speak quite often about apostasy.
 They call themselves Christians, but they're not.
 Or they reject Christianity totally, choosing some other messiahs like Lenin or Stalin or something else.
 Or other religions, fake religions, and following some fake prophets, and they're ready to die for that.
 So the world today is enslaved again.
 The world today is blinded.
 Even Christianity is corrupted so much that people don't see that they serve mammon while pretending to serve Christ.
 I dedicate a lot of videos to this topic, but today I want to say about this Babylon covering everyone, including most of the Orthodox Christians.
 Spiritually speaking, this happens because of alienation from Christ.
 People, they read prayers just into emptiness.
 People go to church just to do some rituals.
 People open the book just to give them, give these words, their own interpretation.
 And they are stubborn in this direction, in the same way as these Babylonians who were building this tower, and they were fixed, and they were stubborn in this idea.
 They were possessed by this idea to replace God with themselves.
 And the Tower of Babel, or Babylon, it's the same, was meant to bring the heavens to earth, to replace the true heavens with this earthly kingdom of pleasure and satisfaction and glory that they wanted to attribute to themselves.
 "Let us make a name for ourselves," they said in their craziness.
 And this was a domination in the eyes of the Lord.
 So this is why when he came down, he saw how far people got away from him.
 They don't want him, they want something else.
 They want this earth to be their kingdom, their heavens, their paradise.
 And the Lord extended his mercy.
 He did not destroy these people, he mixed the languages.
 He sent his angels, and they brought this change.
 This image of the ancient Babylon in the Old Testament gives us a great understanding of what it means to have this harlot of Babylon in the apocalypse.
 In the end of times, and we live in apocalypse today.
 As a matter of fact, we live in apocalypse since the times of the apostles, but especially today.
 Especially today, we are already in the apocalypse, and everything which is written there is taking place in one way or another.
 And an important message there is that the harlot of Babylon is blocking the heavens.
 It is blocking the heavens, and it is presenting itself as the new heavens, this image.
 What does this mean?
 What do I mean by blindness today?
 There are two states in which almost everyone is right now.
 Two states, and people switch from one to another very often.
 But generally there are two states.
 One state is the state of active passion, which is motivating a person for something, to reach some goal, say buy a car, save money, get a nice job, travel to some destination, tourism.
 It could be a diploma, read some books, become knowledgeable, hobbies.
 There are crazy stuff, which people know they waste their time in sports, watching football, tennis, all this empty stuff.
 They have this passion driving them, they are willing to lose hours and years of their life.
 Just watching some empty thing or going to watch movies or those soap operas or games, these computer games.
 People are just wasting their time, being driven by some passion.
 And this passion, or maybe to some disco, bar, people do drugs and many other crazy stuff, they are driven.
 They have great enthusiasm for that.
 Some people are into science or some research or something else, completely dragged by some force.
 And this passion, which is behind it, is this passion of Babylon.
 This passion of creating something which is without God, which brings glory to him and maybe possibly some paradise, fake paradise to him or to her.
 And this fire of this passion is actually the fire of Guyana, of this eternal fire of condemnation which everyone is approaching when we give in to some passion.
 I think most of us have this experience.
 The next time, at least Christians, at least people who have something left from their conscience which is not burnt out yet completely.
 So we need to know that whenever this passion comes, maybe even some sweat, cold sweat, whenever this happens, this is the fire of Guyana.
 Worsening this fire of Guyana which is approaching, if we don't drop this, if we don't turn away, turn to Christ, repent with tears.
 And this fake light which is attracting us in any of those things, which I've just listed, this fake light is not the light of the Kingdom of Heaven, it's the light of Lucifer, the one who brings light.
 Luke's light Pharaoh brings Lucifer. Another state that also many people are in, and it's just another face of the same coin, is pessimism and complete rejection of this reality.
 When everything is gloomy, when life loses its meaning, what we do is meaningless, our future has nothing to hope for, people are liars, government is bad, weather is bad, the country I live is bad, everything is so bad.
 This is called despondency or sorrow for this earthly sorrow, for not having something which I don't know what, some lost dreams, some disappointment about life, about my career, about my family, we don't want to leave, we don't want to face this reality.
 And also this is a very common materialistic mindset, because it would say it's just this world, there is nothing else, the world loses any spiritual meaning.
 It's just these cars and this noise and these clouds and nothing else, and this face in the mirror which is gloomy all the time that I look at every morning.
 So this is the situation with despondency and this also is a slander coming from the devil to block the heavens, to say there is no heavens, the Lord will not help you, I am your Lord, don't hope for God, all this is nonsense, you cannot be saint, there is no divine help coming, no providence.
 Salvation is closed for you, God is dead as Nietzsche said, dead for most people who live in this apostasy.
 So this is another way of this harvest of Babylon to block the heavens.
 And of course there is fake spirituality in all this occultist stuff, this new age or some pagan religion in yoga or some Hinduism, some crazy stuff, Zen Buddhism, this is all fake.
 This mysticism in Catholicism, this madness of Charismatics which is now everywhere, all of that is a surrogate for salvation, but it's more of the first type when people still are obsessed about something.
 But this something is a fake spirituality, it can call itself Christian ten times, but it's not, it has nothing to do with Christ, actually it does because it's anti-Christian, it's against Christ.
 So in this world that we are in, the task of the disciple of Christ is to overthrow this Babylon, first within himself.
 This pharaoh which is controlling him by his passions, his wrong ideas, his selfishness, his obsession about material stuff, all the fears he has, being a coward, obsessed and attached to everything he has, his properties, his comfort, way of life.
 First we kill this pharaoh every day and then we gain the Lord's spirit, we gain this dariness to bring this testimony of this joy of salvation, of this pleasure, spiritual pleasure of self-sacrifice, ministry, unconditional love for people.
 This is something that is foreign to this world and it's almost absent now, even among Christians it's hard to find such people, among Orthodox Christians, not talking about heretics.
 So let us set this goal, brothers and sisters, it is very much possible, the Lord's grace is ever powerful, is as always powerful, it hasn't really diminished, it's us who have all this worldliness in us, this old man living still much life in us.
 Let us put effort into prayer, into spiritual life, the Lord will show us how to do that.
 If we will be ready to sacrifice everything, we will be ready to sacrifice our time, our energy, our resources for Christ and the gospel, for the person next to me, for my neighbor, for people whom I meet on the street, foreigners.
 There is no one who is foreign to us, who is alien, we don't have anyone, we're even blessing our enemies and people who do wrong, those killers and murderers, we're blessing them.
 They're all victims of Satan, we pray for them, we have love for everyone, total forgiveness and we fight with the evil, with demons, with all kinds of air, passion, we break this Babylon.
 Well, it's not us, it's the Spirit of the Lord, he will break all this, as long as we are willing to surrender ourselves to him, through humbleness, through obedience to the holy tradition of the church, which is the fruits of the Holy Spirit, through full focus on the spiritual life.
 May the Lord give us such eagerness, such heart, may he bless the fruits of our efforts, this will give us great meaning that will overcome any despondence, we will see light, we will see light in the things that we do every day, we will see light in the future, we will see light in the people around us.
 May this be so, may we be in Christ every day of our life, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
