 Dear brothers and sisters, yesterday we have celebrated the feast of the great apostles
 Peter and Paul, and today is the feast of the 12 apostles, and we are now on this path
 of apostles.
 After Pentecost, we are sent together with the apostles to do this mission, and they
 are greatest examples for us, and now the whole year until the next year's great land
 will be the time of Pentecost, the time of receiving the grace of the Lord for us to
 accomplish this journey, to witness Christ's love to everyone.
 To do this, I want to share with you one finding which I find very important.
 What does it mean to be an apostle?
 Well, basically you need to love, put it simple, love Christ more than anything else, reject
 the world, and catch people into the net of the kingdom of heaven.
 You will be fishermen of man.
 And this is told to every Christian who wants to follow Christ, who wants to truly become
 his disciple, not just to the priests, to missionaries, for everyone.
 This is the goal.
 So what does this mean?
 And how do we accomplish this?
 Well, the apostles, they were able to do this not because they just went to many places
 or they've done miracles, well, first key was their spiritual life, their prayer, the
 power of their prayer, and the clear vision of what they need to do.
 The understanding of the problem of this world.
 If you want to be a good fisherman, you need to see what's going on with the fish and with
 the river or wherever you're fishing.
 Only then you'll be able to be successful fisherman.
 So Pastor Paul tells us a lot of things about this world, how it's lying evil, how this
 mystery of lawlessness is coming, is developing, and this man of sin is going to be revealed
 one day.
 So he is already telling us about this mammon coming, because the Lord himself told us about
 this prince of this world.
 So all of these things are related.
 tradition, apocalypse.
 So today I want to say something which in my view is a key, is a key both to our individual
 spirituality and to understanding what's happening with this world and what can be done to accomplish
 the apostolic task of bringing people to Christ.
 Overall, we can say that religiosity in this world has went down tremendously over the
 last 150-170 years, since about the mid 19th century.
 Churches are getting empty.
 If you go anywhere now, you will see the churches are either closed, demolished or
 empty, or they are made something else, kindergarten, condominium, something like that.
 Or they're half empty and filled with older people.
 Or they're like crazy, heretic sect, like charismatics who attract young people.
 But it's all craziness.
 It doesn't look like repentance, Christ, prayer, no, it's something else already.
 Just the demon worshiping.
 So why is this happening?
 As a matter of fact, even other nations, Asia went to materialism, communism, together with
 the Russia Soviet Union.
 All these countries, nations, they embraced this materialistic, this crazy idea of some
 socialist paradise to be built in this world.
 And they've abandoned any religion.
 Now some of them are getting back, but it's already something else.
 It's not the way it used to be before, these so-called new Buddhists and new Hindus.
 It's already different from what it used to be.
 And most people, no matter whether it's Jewish or Muslim, become much more materialistic.
 People care much more about happy, prosperous life, more money, okay, comfort, better lifestyle.
 You know, material earthly things, mammon.
 This mammonization of the world is happening big time.
 Why is that?
 People don't find need for religion, most people these days.
 Or they just need some occultism, magic, or yoga, or some surrogate.
 But that's not religion.
 Why is this happening?
 Why is this place which used to be occupied by the Lord, or is prepared for the Lord?
 Now it's not.
 It's occupied by something else.
 And this is why you're telling people, and even people who already accept Christ in their
 mind, you tell them, "Okay, pray, let's repent, let's read the Gospel."
 I'm busy with something else.
 Even Christians become much more materialistic, secular.
 Why is that happening?
 Why have we become drawn into this material stuff much more than a hundred years ago?
 Consumption skyrocketed.
 Not just because there is a lot of stuff on the shelf.
 Because people want stuff, it's not enough.
 So what is going on here?
 What is going on here?
 Because this is the world we are facing.
 Despite all these problems, when we are thinking about Antichrist, that there will be one ruler
 who will come one day to rule the whole universe, and everybody will receive him as God, we
 say, "Well, it is impossible."
 Imagine now somebody comes and says, "Okay, worship me like God, I'm your savior, and
 I rule the whole world."
 People who know anything about Bible will say, "Oh, you're Antichrist, and we don't
 want you."
 I don't see myself happening right now, but we know that it will happen.
 And today I want to tell you about the key which he will use to open the path to the
 hearts of everyone, and it's already happening big time, and it's not something that we cannot
 imagine.
 No, eventually this will happen, and we'll see that it's working in us already, this
 beast.
 Kabbalah and Talmud were invented when Jewish people rejected Christ.
 Whatever was before that was just a rehearsal.
 But the real invention, the books like Zohar and other stuff, were developed right after
 the majority of Jews rejected Christ.
 They made this choice.
 Okay, I'm not anti-Semite, but we need to know the essence of this.
 And essentially Holy Fathers, they said that now even the Apostle Paul says that they say
 that they are Jews, but they are just a synagogue of Satan.
 And the same things we find in John Chrysostom and many Holy Fathers.
 So whenever the Jews are gathering this Talmudistic Jews, I'm not talking about all the Jews,
 but those who are in Talmud, in Kabbalah, basically the God whom they call God is Satan.
 And what do they say?
 What does Kabbalah say?
 It says that the unification of the whole world will happen when every living creature
 will awake in his heart, in his soul, will awake the sparkle of God.
 Or some elements in light of God will awake him, will shine in him.
 And then there will be no need for war and people will be not finding any reason to wage
 war against each other.
 So there will be this one big world, and of course it will be ruled by the King of Kings,
 which is the Mashiach, the Savior.
 So this will be the Antichrist, and this sparkle, or this light of God is light or sparkle of
 Satan.
 This is the beast, if you will, that will awaken in everyone's heart.
 And all kinds of emancipations that are happening, and I have a video on enlightenment, are awakening
 this beast.
 Of course it has many heads, it's complicated, but it's awakening some of that.
 And very often when we hear our people became more conscious, our people became smarter,
 they became more enlightened, very often what it means is that they've departed conscience,
 they've departed the tradition, love, family, human nature, and now they are awakened, enlightened.
 They have some new conscience.
 And this is the reason why people are drawn far away from Christ.
 They live, they think, in a way that they are guided by another spirit, not by the Spirit
 of God.
 In the Gospel of Luke chapter 9 we see that even apostles had a wrong spirit, and the Lord
 told them about that.
 Let's read it.
 Chapter 9 verse 54 to 56.
 And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, they saw what?
 They saw that Samaritans, they prevent the Lord to pass the Samaria and go to Jerusalem.
 So they saw that this village in front of them is not receiving Christ, is hostile against
 Christ, towards Christ.
 So they say, okay, when they saw this, they said, "Lord, wilt thou that we command fire
 to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elias did?"
 But he turned and rebuked them and said, "You know not what manner of spirit you are of."
 In the original, what spirit you are of, not manner, there is no manner.
 "For the Son of Man is not come to destroy man's lives or souls, but to save them."
 And they went to another village.
 So they had this idea, okay, we destroy them, they're on our path.
 We call the fire from the heaven, it will eradicate this village at all, like Elias
 did one time.
 Well, in the Old Testament, many things were just a prophecy for what is going to be revealed
 by God in the end of times by Christ.
 So those things, like if you're rich, then you have blessing of God.
 We can find that in the Old Testament, but even there, we see that it's very conditional
 and it's all just prophecy, it's prophetic, telling us about the true riches, or the true
 spirit of love that comes, and eradication of sin, not people, eradication of passions,
 anger against passions, against sin, not against people.
 So they had this wrong idea and wrong spirit, and the Lord told them that you don't know
 what spirit you're of.
 We Christians very often don't know what is the spirit we're supposed to have.
 And today I want to tell you about this spirit of beast and spirit of the harlot of Babylon.
 These are two types, two big types of this anti-Christian spirit that you can see in
 yourself, I can see it in myself, we can see it in people around us.
 The spirit of the beast, we saw it, this is very aggressive, this is the spirit of fighting
 with God, fighting with tradition, fighting with the fruits of the Holy Spirit, this is
 what we see in the Protestantism.
 Against, against the fruits of the Holy Spirit, this revolution, this destroying, and we have
 the spirit emerging in different ways, in all kinds of revolutions, and in feminism,
 in many things, in many places.
 And another spirit is related, but it's different.
 They help each other.
 Another spirit is the spirit of this Babylon, this harlot of Babylon, which says everything
 is fine, it's the spirit of adultery, could be a spiritual adultery, when you sort of
 love everyone, but at the expense of not loving God and His truth.
 Everything is fine, this is fine, this is fine, we tolerate everything, we tolerate
 this, we tolerate that, but there is no truth, you know, things like that.
 Because a harlot tolerates anyone for money.
 So this is why it's also related to money.
 You can buy anything with money now, this is the spirit of Babylon, big time.
 So they go hand in hand, these two things.
 And so sometimes we betray God, sometimes we are against something that's sent by God.
 And this is what's happening with every one of us.
 Some of these beasts are coming up, either is the Lord said, this adulterous generation.
 We are, we are adulterous, even more than people at the time of Christ.
 Even Christians, the big thing is that these two things work in Christians, in Orthodox
 Christians also, but they have more means of fighting with this.
 So we need to first destroy this spirit of the beast and of the harlot inside our own
 hearts.
 If we are conscious of this, we will not give the key to antichrist to subdue us.
 And we will also be able to help others to get out of this class of the demon, of the
 satan.
 Because now people are basically drawn by this spirit and they don't even realize that.
 This is where we get this stubbornness, the Holy Gospel.
 I know better what it means.
 I know better.
 I don't need holy fathers, I don't need anything.
 I know better.
 New schisms, new sects developing because everybody knows better.
 This is the spirit of protest and you make yourself a god.
 And you are hostile to everything which is against us, the spirit of Cain, the beast.
 Or you can be, everything goes, everything is fine, we don't care, just enjoy your life,
 make money and stuff like that.
 That's the spirit of Babylon, the spirit of this whore of Babylon.
 Let us be aware of this, brothers and sisters, let us now, when we stand on this path to
 Christ, to follow Christ, to become his apostles, let us be aware of this, let us know that
 unless we get rid of these things in our own heart, nothing will save us from Antichrist.
 You may think that you now have read everything about these conspiracies, you know everything
 and you never reject Christ by any means.
 So whatever happens, you will be loyal to Christ.
 If you don't face this problem that I just mentioned in your heart, you will betray him,
 for sure, 100%.
 In that moment you'll agree, you'll say yes, okay, one way or another.
 The spirit will drag you into that direction.
 This is why people at the end of times, they will not be able to repent.
 The Lord will be sending them disasters so that they can repent and change, but they
 will be stuck in their enmity towards God.
 And they will be saying blasphemies towards God for sending these disasters, but they
 will not repent.
 Because they will be completely embraced by those spirits of Cain and Babylon.
 And they will receive another savior who will come and say, "I will save you, now I will
 solve your problems, just be connected to my system, I'll provide you food and everything
 you need."
 Let us be aware of these brothers and sisters, let us be vigilant spiritually, let us put
 effort into spiritual life, and know that only that way can we truly become his disciples.
 And we can bring the love of Christ, this testimony of his love and self-sacrifice to
 all the people around us and whom we meet every day in our life.
 May the Lord's blessing, wisdom, humbleness and love be with you, I mean.
 God bless.
