 Dear brothers and sisters, there is a great need to talk about repentance.
 The Lord himself and the apostles, they preached "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near."
 Unless we have repentance, we will not receive the kingdom of heaven.
 And very often we take it for granted.
 We repent one time, and then the new life began, and everything is fine, our sins are forgiven,
 so no need to talk about repentance. This is a big mistake.
 No repentance, no Christ, no kingdom of heaven, no salvation.
 And in the Orthodox Church, we know that we need to repent all the time.
 However, our repentance very often, most of the time, is very superficial.
 We just read some book about some major sins, and we just compare our behavior.
 Okay, this is not in line, so we repent.
 And some people don't even open those books, so they don't even know what to repent.
 So, today there is a need to talk about deep repentance.
 What does it mean to repent deeply?
 Some saints, they have some very strange things.
 We see that some saints, they were repenting all the time, weeping for their sins.
 For example, Saint Ephraim the Syrian, every night he spent weeping for his sins.
 And we wonder if he did not trust the Lord that he was forgiven.
 Why weep for your sins every night, all night long? Isn't that strange?
 Or Saint Sisoy the Great, he was like God on earth.
 He was a great saint, and he has done miracles, and had thousands of disciples learning spiritual life from him, seeing his great virtues.
 But on his deathbed he was speaking with someone, and his disciples asked him, "Whom are you speaking with?"
 He said, "The angels came for my soul, and I am asking them to give me some more time for repentance."
 They told him, "You don't need repentance, Ava."
 And he replied, "Brethren, I don't even know if I have ever began repenting."
 And then he passed away, and his face shone as a sun.
 Well, those words are very strange.
 He doesn't know if he repented, if he began repenting.
 True repentance, what does it mean?
 We will see that the more we are in this true repentance, the holier is our life, the less passions we have.
 The more we think that we are far away from God, very strange, and the more Christ lives in us.
 These things which I just said sound paradoxical. It's either you are holy or you are not holy. If you are holy, you don't have passions, you are shining, you are fine.
 You know, of course, that you will be saved because you already have the kingdom of heaven in your heart.
 Well, that's our human logic. In reality, this is not how this works.
 How does this work?
 First of all, let's recall that we have "nous" and "nous" is mind, but the ascetic mind, not the normal mind.
 And we have our reasoning or intellect, which is called "logos" in Greek.
 So nous, mind, it's not thinking. Mind is seeing. It's called the eye of the soul, or we call it spiritual eyes or spiritual ears, listening to the will of God, the commandment, the calling of God.
 Seeing these great treasures in habits, seeing some truth, seeing how things are, seeing who am I.
 When they saw who they are, this is where humbleness comes from, because they discover that they are vast distance.
 There is a great gap between them and God when they saw who they are, how miserable, how wretched, how filthy they are, how much their will is enslaved by self-love.
 Because this is when Adam and Eve, when they sinned, the love towards God became love towards themselves.
 They loved themselves more. And when you love yourself more, this brings egoism, it can be individualistic, it can be a community, a family.
 If you just love your family, that's also egoistic. If it's your nation and you love only your nation above God, that's also egoistic.
 It can be even altruistic, for vainglory, you do something good that people praise you and you're altruistic.
 It's also some spiritual self-satisfaction. Or you can be even spiritually egoistic.
 You may drop everything just care about your own salvation. This is also egoism.
 So we can see that everything could be egoistic, even some spiritual efforts, even deeds of mercy, prayer, anything.
 It could be based on egoism. And the Holy Fathers saw that, they saw how deep is the sin, how much they love themselves instead of loving God.
 And not loving God truly. And getting healthier, recovering your mind, you can see this better.
 And the healing will be coming. But the more healing is coming, the more you see how far you're still lacking, how much you're lacking still.
 So you will recover love for God. But the more you recover, the more you'll see it's not enough.
 It's still very weak. And we are not even in the beginning of that path.
 Because Saint Peter of Damascene, he says that when you repent, you'll see your sins as many as sand on the beach.
 That many. And of course, if you would see that your sins are so many, you don't accuse anyone.
 You would love people. You would think everyone else is holy because, well, you'll see maybe one or two things that they have.
 But yours are as many as sand on the beach. So that brings true humbleness.
 That brings true love, lack of anger, lack of judgment for judging others.
 This is what is to judge yourself. If you judge yourself, you will not be subject to the judgment later by the Lord.
 That's true repentance. So without continuous deep repentance, there is no salvation.
 There is no gospel. There is no need to do any deeds of mercy if you don't have true repentance.
 There is no need to do mission, to do prayer, to do anything, to research the Holy Scripture.
 If you don't care, you don't have repentance. So this is why there was a great success when this Protestantism was born.
 Because these people didn't need any kind of repentance at all. So that was the great victory of the devil.
 It became all fake Christianity, important, without any spiritual power, always blinded by self-reliance.
 And that's the harm of heresy, the spirit of heresy. But this is not our topic today.
 So let us think deeply about these things.
 This uncertainty, if you are saved or not, is discovered when you see your will.
 How corrupt is your will? And you know that at the end of your life you don't know if your will will be going out.
 At some point you'll discover that your will is not with God. It's with something else, with mammon.
 You might think that you are with God, you pray, you go to church, you do this, you do that, you help people.
 But at the end of the day you may discover that you've done it all for yourself.
 All just for vainglory, to be praised, to have self-satisfaction, or for something else.
 But not because you love God. So that's why even saints, very often they doubt it if they will be saved.
 Most of them. Most of them they were not sure.
 And there is nothing discouraging about this.
 This should encourage us for even more effort, spiritual effort, continuously, every day, every hour, every minute.
 May the Lord give us this vigilance, give us this heart, give us this heart which is broken.
 The Lord will not make the broken heart ashamed.
 This is why this broken heart. And this broken heart, this repenting heart, it doesn't mean that you are always gloomy, that you are always depressed.
 No. Whenever our heart is repenting, we see this separation. We see ourselves in the hell, basically, when we are repenting.
 Worthy of hell. However, at that time, because it's the moment of truth, it's the moment that we realize that there is this sickness, there is this darkness in us.
 At that moment, we also see hope. We also see that there is light, there is this source of light which is shining and that's why my darkness is exposed.
 And this light gives me great hope, great love. And I see that He is the Savior, the only hope, the only rock of salvation.
 I can only trust Him, I can only rely on Him. I become stronger every day because I'm not relying on this, on that, on someone.
 No, on Him, on Christ, my Savior. May the Lord give us this vision, give us this heart.
 Make this reality, not some theory, not some words, but true reality which comes through these tribulations, through asceticism, overcoming yourselves.
 Overthrowing this internal pharaoh, squeezing through rocks as a snake who is squeezing through rocks to have this old skin piled off.
 We are squeezing through these hardships of this life, going this narrow path so that our old self may be wiped out, may be destroyed.
 And we may come out winners and successors, sorry, hearers of the kingdom of heaven. May this be so, may the Lord give us strength, keep us on this path, guide us, give us courage, give us recovery, spiritual vision.
 Despite all this darkness and blindness that is coming from both our flesh, from this world, and from devil.
 May the Lord help us and make us victorious. Amen. God bless.
