 Dear brothers and sisters, we are living in very dangerous times. These are the
 times when the devil is trying to hack the church. Of course he's been trying to
 hack the church for all these centuries. However, now he has some success. He
 hasn't succeeded completely and he will never have full victory over the church.
 But now he has some progress. Okay, and this is something I want to talk about.
 How can he succeed in deceiving individual Christians and even local
 churches and maybe even the whole church? Well, maybe 20-30 years ago I could be
 sure to tell you that all other churches, so-called churches, denominations,
 Protestants, Catholics, they already have been conquered by the devil. Okay, they are
 not an obstacle for the devil. Okay, because moral-wise, of course they fell
 off the grace as soon as they broke off the Orthodox Church, but they
 still had some healthy values, they still have many things which were not
 pleasing for the devil, but now it's all gone. Okay, just individual people are
 still trying to do something, but in general these churches, no matter
 how big, you see now how big is the Catholic Church, but it's completely
 subdued by the devil and the spirit of this world. In a way, how they
 support all these perverts and other stuff. So in those days I could tell
 you that the only obstacle now for the devil is the Orthodox Church of Christ.
 The devil is unable to hack, unable to penetrate to the walls of
 this fortress, and is the greatest danger for him in this world, because it's not
 allowing him to overcome, to overtake the whole world, which is his
 dream, his plan. However, nowadays we are experiencing great challenges, great
 challenges, and this wall has already some cracks. Okay, and this doesn't mean
 that the words of Christ, that the devil will not overcome the gates of hell, will
 not overcome the church which was established by Christ, that will
 never happen. However, to understand what that means, we need to think about the
 grace which we perceive within the church, which has never diminished, and
 the truth that we find in the church, it's always been there. But when we are
 talking big things, like a general attitude or some norms,
 some attitude towards fasting or towards what's going on in the world,
 these things, these trends, they can change. The church people, even many,
 even hierarchy, bishops, patriarchs, that can change, and it is important to not
 be too reliant these days on just belonging to the Orthodox Church.
 First of all, let us talk about the idea of being hacked. On individual level,
 someone can be hacked. You have a child, you were bringing him or her up in
 healthy values, in good company, good books, everything. However, at the age of
 16-15, you discover that he or she is now becoming different.
 You cannot penetrate into his mind, but you can see that he is now smoking or
 has tattoos, piercings, swears sometimes. It's different, it's already a
 different person. You are surprised what happened. After a few years, you
 discover that he is stealing, that he is doing drugs and something else, and you
 are wondering what is going on. But you could see that his heart has been
 hacked, maybe in that early moment. It's being hacked, it's already a different
 person, it's been stolen. The snake has crept into his or her heart and
 now it's a different person already. And similar things happen with governments,
 with corruption, and that's why it's called corruption. It's corrupting,
 spoiling. When people who are responsible for the country, who are responsible for
 the well-being and for the justice in this country, they are selling
 their conscience, they are selling their people, their country for bribes, for
 money. This is adultery. Any kind of hacking, any kind of penetration by the
 devil is some form of hacking, being hacked, being the betrayer.
 Judas sold Christ for thirty pieces of silver. And this spiritual
 adultery, this takes many forms and shapes. And unless we are extremely
 vigilant and we keep fast to the gospel of Christ, to the Holy Church, to the
 Holy Communion, we will be hacked. No matter if we call ourselves Orthodox or
 non-Orthodox, we will be hacked. Today let me say briefly what has
 happened. Why is this happening? Well, the main reason is this relaxation. After this
 totalitarian and Bolshevik governments, after the wars, the big wars, the First
 World War, Second World War, the time of peace, people got relaxed. The new
 paradigm that everything is allowed, it's liberal, everything is allowed,
 everything is fine. No devil. What devil? Who is devil? You can do whatever you
 want, you can believe whatever you want, you can buy whatever you want, you can go
 wherever you want. So this liberal mindset has blinded people, including
 people of the church. And this is why it became more natural for church
 people to just become part of the society. And if society is brainwashed by
 some... it used to be TV, but now it's bloggers, it's YouTube, it's all
 these things, but it's the same brainwashing with all those algorithms and filters.
 And now, yes, it's just a matter of fact, who are you watching? Okay, you're
 watching this blogger or that blogger, okay, that's how you think. And that
 became very different from we understand ourselves as Christians and the rest of
 the world, which lies in the evil. We listen to Christ, and that's it. In
 the gospel, in the church, and that's it. In the monastery, the monastics, and that's
 it. We don't listen to, you know, some influencers or something else, but now
 it's different. And now, of course, this didn't happen all of a sudden, okay, there
 was a long preparation. And we can see that from the first centuries the devil
 was trying to hack the church, okay, he was trying to... first he was inventing all
 kinds of heresies, okay, and all kinds of attempts, okay, some were very
 strict, some were very lax, some were saying that, okay, freedom, now we are
 free. So no morals, no laws, okay, you just do whatever you want, and the indulging
 all kinds of sins, okay. The church was able to overcome all these errors. Maybe
 in those days those attacks were even stronger than today, but the church was
 also stronger. The church people were stronger. I shouldn't say "the church",
 because the Church of Christ is always holy. So later the big risk came with
 Christianity becoming the allowed religion, and then becoming the
 official religion of the Roman Empire, then Byzantine, and most Christian
 countries that have both positive influence on those societies, but also
 have the great risk of going too close with the government and with the nation
 and with these things. And this is what is harming us now. If you are too
 close with the nation, you may become more nationalistic rather than Christian,
 who has his main homeland in the heavens and not on earth, or you become too much
 dependent on the government and not on Christ, and the government became subdued
 by Mammon. It first happened in Europe, in the Western Europe, former
 Christian countries and monarchs, but then it happened in Russia and West and
 Eastern Europe also. And I'm now not talking about other countries, okay, they
 were hacked in other ways, and much easier. So now we are dealing with
 this problem, that unless we remain spiritually vigilant every day, morning
 till night, bringing the fruits of faith, we will be enslaved, we will be blinded.
 Okay, we see how priests are blinded, they were relaxed after the prosecutions
 stopped more than 30 years ago, so this 30 years of relaxation had a tremendous
 impact. And we have the faithful, who don't care about their faith. Okay, we
 come to the church for two hours a week, but if you count how many hours you have
 in a week, seven days, that's more than hundred hours. I'm not counting
 sleep and food, it's more than 100 hours, and only two hours are dedicated to God.
 And everything else is full immersion in Mammon, and with this you think you won't
 be a slave of Mammon, you think you won't be blinded by the Mammon. Okay, if you're
 wasting your time during these other days and hours, playing some stupid games, or
 watching some movies, or you know, just killing your time, you are wasting,
 and you're not just wasting, you're becoming blinded completely, mammonized.
 Okay, you're becoming a mammonist, and I'm now talking not only about regular
 faithful, I'm talking about priests as well. They're also, often they're spending
 hours in some chat rooms, sharing some links, videos, pictures, who knows
 what. Okay, just for entertainment, just for, you know, for nothing else to do. And
 you think that such people would not be blinded by some propaganda, by some
 bloggers, some influencers? Okay, of course they will be blinded, especially if it's
 total blindness. Okay, most of people are blinded by some kind of media. Okay, as
 soon as you hear that, as you see that many people, not just Christians, not just
 Orthodox, but many people support some position, and they say yes, yes, yes, we
 like this guy, and the others are bad. There is a big chunk of people, okay, keep
 away from this, keep away from this. That means that this is a herd, and it's
 rushing towards the percipice. Eventually it will go into the sea and
 drown there, like in the gospel. We don't want to be part of any herd, we want to
 be only following Christ, our true pastor. And this is becoming more and more
 difficult. External piety, I go to church, I put a candle, I receive
 communion, everything is fine, and then I go back to my mammon, and everything is
 so peaceful and so nice, okay, I have a peace of mind, okay, and I'm like everyone
 else, okay, and that's it. And you are, you are like everyone else, you are
 completely blinded, and the peace that you think you have is not the peace of
 the world, of the Lord, it's the peace of Antichrist. It is falling asleep, spiritual
 death, and you think that this is peace, brothers and sisters, we need to see if
 we are bringing fruits of faith, if we are free of any fake false ideologies.
 And even fruits of faith, okay, some people say, oh, I helped this person, now
 I'm happy, I am good. So, Buddhists do the same, and many others do the same. This is
 better than just walking away, of course, walking by, if you help someone, this is
 good, but it's not enough, it doesn't mean, okay, it's not the reason for you to be
 relaxed now, to say I'm a nice person, so I am bringing fruits, bearing fruits of
 faith, it's not enough. Fasting becomes more and more relaxed, with all kinds of
 justification. Brothers and sisters, let us be vigilant, let us put more effort
 into prayer, let us not accuse anyone, but let us see that this world is
 dragging everyone into its net, including the Orthodox, okay, and we have to be
 super vigilant to avoid this. We should not be relying too much on someone else,
 on the official church position, or on something else. No, not anymore.
 We have to be fighters ourselves, okay. When the fortress has cracks, now it
 depends on every individual soldier, if he is able to hold the enemy and to
 withstand this spirit of this world, overtaking the minds and hearts of
 everyone on this planet. May the Lord give us wisdom, give us spiritual
 vigilance, give us hearts which are unceasingly striving for the truth, for
 his righteousness, craving for the kingdom of heaven and its truth, and
 ready to trample the devil anytime, and the mighty hand of our Lord, his wisdom,
 his love for others, sacrificial love, will be with us. I mean, God bless, brothers
 and sisters.
