 Dear brothers and sisters, the issues related to nationality, to ethnic background, is not something that is concerning a Christian, especially an Orthodox Christian, because for Christ there is no nationality.
 Actually, Apostle Paul says there is even no gender in Christ.
 For a Christian, from the early times, it was important that you receive Christ, you receive the grace, and it was not important which nation you are from.
 We see in the very early times, it's the Christians coming from Jews and the Gentiles, Christians from Gentiles. There are two big categories.
 But very soon even these distinctions disappear, and the True Church becomes universal, even though it was in different countries.
 Well, at that time majority of Christians were in the Roman Empire, but also in other places, in Persia, in India, in Armenia, in other countries which were not part of Roman Empire.
 Well, why do I want to talk about this problem? There are several reasons. Recently, some people are asking me, well, we have Orthodox countries at war with each other, and different Orthodox nations fighting with each other.
 We also have this problem of immigrants, some countries which were supposedly Christians, Christians in Europe, in Russia, in the United States, in Greece, but now people are coming from all over the world.
 And now it becomes pluralistic and even replaced by Muslims in some places.
 So, eventually this is a big threat, big issue for the Church, for the Christian identity.
 So, there is some need to clarify things. First of all, it's important to distinguish two tendencies.
 There is one tendency which is so called, let's call it conservative, conservative nationalistic. This tendency would say that yes, if you are Serbian, say, you are Orthodox, there should not be too many people from other places.
 In Serbia, or in Serbian communities in the US, it should be more closed, and that will help preserve the identity and the Christianity, the Orthodoxy of this group.
 Well, this sounds, okay, this is one, and the same would be for Bulgarian, for, well, less so for Russian, but also maybe for Russian, within Russia at least.
 Okay, similar things. There are people with such ideas, Orthodox, and there are people who are on the other side of the spectrum, who would be the so called cosmopolitan, who would say that, well, or it's also called the Ouranopolis, okay,
 that your polity, your citizenship is in the heavens, so your motherland is in the heavens, and that's why your earthly background, your motherland, your nation, your ethnic ethnicity,
 do not matter at all whatsoever, just cut out any relationship to it, okay, you are a man of the world.
 Well, let's take a closer look at both of these tendencies, because both of them are false, and they lead to anti-Christian outcomes.
 The first tendency is similar to the Old Testament logic. We are afraid of other nations bringing their religion into our group, and we will be mixing with them, we will be spoiled by their religion, their faith, their culture, and we will disappear, okay, we will betray the faith of our forefathers.
 So, this is the Old Testament logic, which we slip into due to worldliness, okay, when there is a lack of faith, when there is weakness, and we don't feel the grace of the Lord,
 and that's why we become so obsessed, or afraid of losing something, okay.
 The early church didn't have this problem. In the early church, the grace that came down on those who called themselves Christians, who became Christians,
 this grace was so powerful, so that they would not be concerned too much, say, oh, you are Syrian, oh, you are Arab, you're Armenian, you're whatever.
 For them, it was all not so relevant. Not irrelevant, completely, no, but it would not be so, they would not be so much obsessed about this, okay.
 They understood that this is external issue. In terms of salvation, in terms of our church life, our faith, these matters are external.
 For example, I don't know, how many brothers and sisters do you have? Is this fundamentally important for your salvation? Maybe not.
 In the same way, your ethnicity is not fundamentally important for your salvation. So this is why it's important that you know your faith, and you're loyal to Christ,
 and you become his weakness, and you live by his word every day of your life. That's what makes you a Christian, and this is what matters.
 And this is why this Old Testament logic was not needed anymore. It was not so much required to depend so much on some fixed forms, some traditions, some ethnic conservatism.
 No, it became already not so relevant for the church. Okay, so the more we recover our relationship with the Lord, the more alive is our faith, the less important will be these things.
 At the same time, let us look at the other spectrum.
 These ideas of Uranapolitism, or Cosmopolitanism for that matter, they seem to be more Christian, however, they are based on liberalism, anti-Christian logic,
 transhuman, post-modernist logic, anti-Christian logic. What is this logic? This logic is that you need to be emancipated from everything,
 from your national belongingness, your ethnic background, your cultural background, your gender, your family, from everything, from your humanity.
 You need to transcend, you need to become superhuman, above all nations, above all traditions, all historic garbage, which we just throw out.
 This is Gnostic and anti-Christian, fundamentally anti-human logic, and it's trying to use the Christian idea of everyone equally belonging to the Kingdom of God.
 It's trying to use this idea to pull the Christians towards that transhumanist logic, that liberal, cosmopolitan logic.
 It is very common among immigrants who come to another country and they have this syndrome of immigrants, most of them, not all of them,
 but it's very common among immigrants that they would be trying to persuade themselves and others that it's the right thing that they've moved away from their country.
 So their national and the country they're coming from, it's all bad, no future, and so on and so forth, and now they're embracing this new paradise that they came to.
 Well, this is also wrong, and I will say why.
 There are saints who say that if you don't love your earthly motherland, you will not love your heavenly motherland.
 So where is the truth? Where is the truth? We will not come to the truth just by logical gymnastics.
 It's not coming from human reasoning. The solution comes from the Lord. The solution comes from the Gospel.
 And in the Gospel, Matthew chapter 12 verse 48 to 50, you remember when the mother and brothers of Christ came to call him,
 he was in a house with disciples saying a sermon, this is what he said.
 When somebody came and said, your mother and your brothers are looking for you, they want to talk to you, he said,
 answering the one who was talking, who is my mother and who are my brothers?
 And showing with his hand towards his disciples, he said, these is my mother, these are my brothers, for whoever will accomplish the will of my heavenly father,
 the same will be my brother and my sister and my mother.
 He is saying, he was saying this about relatives. The same goes for a nation.
 Who are my fellow citizens? People of the same origin, the people who love Christ and who are willing to accomplish his will,
 who are dedicating their lives, sacrificing themselves for the sake of the kingdom of heaven.
 These are the people of the same nation as us.
 OK, at the same time, this doesn't mean that he didn't care who is his physical mother and brothers.
 No, we remember that he was listening to her advice, he was doing what she asked him to do.
 He had piety towards his mother in Kanna of Galilee when she asked him that they don't have wine.
 And he changed his plans and he made converted water into wine and many other examples.
 So it's not that for him it was not important who is his mother, his brothers,
 but it was less important than whether someone is listening to the word of God and following him or not.
 So the same goes for us. For us, it's much more important if someone comes to the church and he loves Christ and he wants to live according to the word of God.
 And no matter if he is black or red or any skin color, Asian, Filipino, Papua New Guinea, coming from the jungle or from some Eskimo from North Pole.
 OK, we don't care. He becomes much closer to us when he is close to God. And we are.
 We become one in Christ when we receive his true body and his true blood. And this is much, much more fundamental.
 And also in the Gospel of Mark 11, 17, the Lord was teaching them, saying, isn't it written that my house will be called the house of prayer for all nations?
 The temple of God is the place of worship for all nations. And the church is the temple of God, the holy church.
 So it's uniting all nations. But it didn't say that they lose their nationality.
 They are coming from different nations and they are one in Christ and they constitute one church.
 It's in the same way that you are not losing your family relationship. You still have your father, your mother, your children, your brothers, sisters.
 These relationships, they still exist when you become a Christian and maybe you become a better son.
 You become a better parent. OK. And you become, say, you're Chinese or you are, I don't know, Indonesian.
 You become a better Indonesian and a better Chinese when you become a Christian.
 And what does that mean? That means that you would not slip into that cosmopolitan thinking. No.
 You will have the wisdom to single out whatever things in your culture belong to Christ and which are not.
 OK. Some nations, they have a rich Christian history.
 Say, Europe or Western, Eastern Europe, like Russia or other like Syria, Egypt.
 These places, the nations, they have a very rich Christian background and they would love those things which are Christians in their culture, in their history.
 Those nations which don't have anything Christian, say, Chinese or Malay or Southeast Asia or Africa, these cultures which don't have much Christian in their history, in their background.
 They would still find very important good things in their culture. Because the Word of God, the Logos, it was present in everywhere.
 Just recently we were analyzing some Confucian texts and we found quite a few things that are very praiseworthy, which are bringing people to virtue.
 And they are totally compatible with Christianity. However, there are tons of things which are pagan.
 And a Christian who is, say, ethnically Chinese, he would need to go through a lot of work, rooting out un-Christian things from his background, from his culture, maybe from his character, but would value those things.
 Which are valuable in the eyes of the Lord.
 So, all these things would help us in facing those issues which we are facing.
 And the 21st century is going to be a century of all this mix, this Babylon is coming.
 In some places it is already there.
 Melting pot, different cultures are melting or disappearing.
 The original culture is disappearing, replaced by some fake, anti-Christian, post-modernist, pseudo-culture.
 All these processes are going to get bigger and bigger.
 The scale, the scope of this phenomenon.
 So, let us be wise, let us be humble, let us be loving, full of love towards everyone.
 We should have love towards people who don't love God.
 We should welcome them. Not just people, but this is another big topic.
 We have the biggest love and trust towards our brothers and sisters in Christ.
 However, we have this great love of pity and we welcome those who don't love Christ yet, who are outside of the Church, who are different religions or heretics.
 We love them so much, we are ready to die for them.
 We welcome them, we pray for them.
 We hope that they will be one with us in Christ.
 May the Lord give us such humbleness, give us wisdom, help us distinguish which things are important, which are less important.
 Teach us to love our own culture, our background, but not at the expense of loving Christ and being first and foremost dedicated to His Kingdom and to this mystical body of Christ, which is the Holy Church.
 I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
