 Dear brothers and sisters, sometimes people ask me why the Catholics and Protestants, they are more active in terms of mission.
 They come earlier to some countries to do mission, say China, Philippines, South America.
 And the Orthodox come much later and the mission is not as big as, say, Catholic mission, which produces thousands of missionaries and has great big budgets, and so on and so forth.
 And the Protestant who are mission-oriented, like everyone in some groups is mission-oriented. How come Orthodox is different?
 Well, the difference is in the basic motivation. The basic motivation for the mission. It's not just some historical reasons or something else.
 All of that is secondary. The great difference is in the basic motivation, inspiration that people have regarding the mission.
 The motivation of not just Catholics and Protestants. We can see that the mission was very active in Buddhism, in Hinduism. We have Hinduism as far as Indonesia, Bali.
 We have big mission of Islam, which conquered so many countries. In the ancient times we have also very big mission of monotheism and other gnostic sects.
 Then we have other heresies like monophysitism, Nestorian, Arianism. It was much bigger than the Orthodox in those days, in the 4th century.
 So the scope and size of some mission doesn't say anything about the truth, if this is the right religion. It tells us something else.
 We will discover that all these missions, not just Catholics and Protestants, but all these missions are driven by the mammon.
 Mammon takes different shapes and forms, but there is something in common. There is something in common that behind this mission is a passion.
 It could be vainglory. I'm so great a missionary, this and that. You try to influence so many people.
 It could be proudness. It could be will for money, power, some sects. We have big modern sects.
 Here we have Chinaitashi and others, where they worship humans, they worship this big fat lady, and many other things.
 And there was research that most of those sects are all about money. It's a good business. Scientology and other things.
 There could be some irrational motivation, because it's all spiritual. It's not just some calculation, some money, power. Not always.
 Very often there is some spirit, some evil spirit behind it. And this evil spirit can be very irrational.
 You can see these glowing eyes. You can see people obsessed about going and preaching to everyone and having everyone converted into your sect.
 We can see it with Charismatics, we can see it with Jehovah's Witnesses, and with many others.
 These people are demon-possessed. Basically, they are demon-possessed. So it's just a matter of grasping, of stealing souls of as many people as you can.
 So the motivation for a mission can be very far away from Christ, from the Holy Spirit.
 Now, coming back to Catholics, Protestants and Orthodox. We can see that the Protestant mission is a reaction to Catholicism.
 It has many things. So let's first say about Catholicism. What drives the mission in Catholicism?
 The big driver behind this mission is the will to spread Catholicism everywhere. World domination.
 And this domination is very political. That you need to become part of us, bring you to recognize the Pope, to accept some fixed number of beliefs.
 And that's it. And everything else, your spiritual life, everything, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter.
 You have this set of beliefs. You recognize the Pope. You are part of us.
 So it has a lot of military logic behind it. It has great emphasis on politics.
 We can see it in the, for example, mission in China. They came and they tried to convince the Emperor and this higher elite, you become Catholic and then we make all the country Catholic.
 So it's very much political. And when it comes to political, it disregards everything else. It disregards the Gospel, self-sacrifice, the righteousness, the morals.
 This is why that the means, any means are fine as long as the goal is right.
 "At Majorium Dei Gloriam, for the greater glory of God."
 So this is perversion of Christianity. It's preaching something else. It's not preaching Christ.
 "Subdue, conquer the whole world."
 And Protestant mission became, became, is a child of Catholicism.
 So it has all this military rhetoric. It has this rhetoric of grasping everyone everywhere.
 And they became, they were contesting each other.
 So it all comes, reformation, counter-reformation. And in this fight, they go to the whole world.
 First they fight in Europe, then they see that they cannot conquer each other in Europe, so they try to conquer the whole world.
 So that's when this big drive in missionary expansion comes about.
 And the way they try to conquer the whole world, in those colonial times, it was all based on military power.
 So some military force comes, they destroy the whole country, they destroy the nature, they destroy the culture, they enslave the people.
 And then in this rubble, this destroyed desert, then comes missionaries and say, "Okay, now we bring to you love of Christ, this and that."
 And of course, if you don't receive that, you die, you become miserable, you're marginalized.
 You don't have good relationship in this new colonial structure.
 So that was back then. So it's just a great mercy that the Orthodox have not participated in all this bloody business.
 And the same with Protestant missions. They use the same methods. No matter where you go, you can see that.
 Dutch or other British, the other methods that are used now, because those years have gone, so now it's based on other things.
 It's based on relief, providing some material goods, especially after World War II.
 Still here in Taiwan, the Catholic Church is called the Bread Church, because they were providing flour and bread and other stuff to those who believe, to those who become Catholic.
 If you don't become Catholic, you're hungry, you die. It's your problem.
 So this memory is still very deep in the minds of people, and they don't have any good feelings about that.
 And they know about political involvement of Catholic Church until our days. Political involvement of Protestants, even more.
 The Protestants here in Taiwan, most of them are green, democratic, progressive, they are just like that with this agenda of the Taiwan independence and other stuff.
 So it's so far from Christ. And also, these modern missions, they are using all kinds of psychological ways of persuading people.
 Especially sects, but not only sects. They are used to reprogram, to brainwash people, to make them rely on you, to see you as savior.
 Not become healthy in Christ, but become more dependent.
 Building schools, universities, hospitals, we provide you this earthly stuff. And because of this earthly stuff, you receive us.
 This is anti-Christian. This is anti-Christian. If your message begins with that, this is anti-Christian.
 It's not from repentance and truth coming from the Lord. It's from this, you see, we give good things to you, earthly things.
 And this is why you need to believe us.
 So now, having said all this, what we can say about the mission of the true Orthodox Church of Christ.
 This mission, of course, historically speaking, we can find many things, many mistakes.
 But the basic spirit of the mission is that you receive the redemption and renewal coming from Christ.
 You have deep repentance and this is giving birth to love Christ, to exert as much effort as you can into this ministry to Christ, to return this love.
 And this is why you have this great motivation to share this love with everyone else.
 And this has been like this from the first day of the church existence.
 OK, we see that Christ was surrounded by these former harlots and toll collectors.
 All these sinners, they were crowding around him and they became the first disciples and apostles.
 They went and preached the whole world, the gospel to the whole world.
 And the same goes with any successful mission in the Orthodox Church, be it conversion of the whole Roman Empire, be it the mission to Persia, to Georgia, to Russia.
 OK, it was always based on just few people who had the zeal coming from deep repentance.
 OK, it was not some attempt to create a big organization which would subdue everyone to the Rome, to the pope.
 It was never like that. OK, and it was not supported by any worldly power in this initial drive.
 Sometimes it brought some emperors and kings to conversion, but it's not the other way around.
 It's not that someone had this logic, "OK, I'm a king, I need more power, and this is why I need to become Christian, I need to become Orthodox."
 No, it was never like that.
 Because the true gospel, the true message of gospel is against mammon, it's against this worldly will of power, money and control.
 OK, it's about repentance, it's about breaking this attachment to this world.
 OK, your kingdom is in the heavens, this is what it's all about.
 So it was always going against the trend, against this spirit of this world, unlike the Catholic and Protestant missions.
 It was never this exalted, like a Catholic Loyola with this fire burning him and his meditations and flogging and many other crazy stuff.
 OK, it was always the spirit of the Lord, spirit of humbleness, spirit of truth, spirit of self-sacrifice, very peaceful, calm.
 May the Lord give inspiration, motivation to everyone, to every one of us for such ministry.
 Every one of us has this potential. We can all become missionaries.
 We can become, first, we become missionaries, not professional, in our daily life, in the way we live with other people.
 We express love, warmth, self-sacrifice, willingness to help to others. We witness Christ's love to people around us on a daily basis.
 And also we consider becoming professional missionaries, not necessarily priests, we can be lay missionaries.
 A very, very simple preparation, maybe a one-year formation. There are courses, there is practice that we can join, some missionary projects somewhere.
 And we see how it's done. We have this inspiration. Having seen others doing it, we want to do it ourselves.
 So all of that is very beneficial. It's very pleasing to the Lord. You may think, well, I sacrifice, I have other plans, I have other career and other life plans.
 But you'll see that if you sacrifice something a little bit for Christ, you will receive manifold compensation in terms of joy that will be given to you.
 In terms of... you will see it. You will see it. It will be a difficult way. It will be a way of the cross, but it will be very blessed and joyful.
 May the Lord help every one of us, give us such motivation, give us wisdom, guidance, help us from all these evil spirits which are driving these non-orthodox heretical missions.
 We want to be true followers of the Holy Apostles, to preach the true gospel to everyone in this world, I mean.
 God bless, brothers and sisters.
