 Dear brothers and sisters, many people are asking me about what is going on in this world, with wars, getting worse and worse,
 and with the risk of bigger war, and with other crises, economic, political, etc.
 And I'm not a politician, I'm not an economic analyst.
 But we as Christians, we are in this world. We don't belong to this world.
 We should beware of worldliness, of the spirit of this world that is dragging everyone's attention to its agenda.
 But we cannot also ignore what is going on, especially the clergy, the pastors of the church.
 They cannot just say, "Well, just pray and read the Bible."
 Because people have pain, people have worries, concerns about the real life, what is going on out there, what is coming.
 So we cannot ignore this. And for this purpose, I decided to record this video to express some of the thoughts that I have
 about the spiritual meaning of what's going on and what should we do.
 Especially recently, just last week, there is this expansion of the war between Russia and Ukraine.
 When Ukraine now conquers part of Russia, it's getting more messy, and this war is even much more dangerous and harmful for the church and the mission.
 Because both countries have many Orthodox. Because they are not Orthodox countries, we should not think that these countries are Orthodox.
 Neither the rulers nor the people. Maybe we have 3-5% Orthodox, people who are really in the church.
 But this is something I want to talk about at the end.
 First of all, let us see what is the state of the world, what is going on with the world first, and then we'll talk about ourselves.
 First, we see that the world is slipping into chaos.
 Some countries, they have war going on right now, directly. More and more countries.
 And, of course, thousands of people are killed every day, and millions are influenced.
 They are displaced, their lives, their families are ruined, their future is destroyed.
 They have lost everything they had. They lost hope. Some lost faith in the Lord.
 Other countries, they are less so influenced. I don't know where are you located, but if you don't have bombs falling on your head, praise the Lord.
 But you would also feel that the whole world is in some tension. There is a big tension.
 Many people are worried in the United States and in the Western world due to the elections which are coming.
 Due to this internal division between people, lack of democracy and many other concerns, economic troubles, trade war with China and this looming third world war that so many people are talking about.
 These dangers, these risks, this great reset that is taking place and maybe future pandemics or so many social unrest with the refugees, with the political strife in Europe and other places.
 We see the crisis in the Middle East with possible involvement of Lebanon and Iran and maybe others.
 So even in such relatively peaceful places there is a great turmoil and danger for most of the people, most of the population of the planet and we see that it becomes worse.
 At least from when? From the economic crisis of 2008 maybe or war in Syria in 2011 and getting worse and worse, getting worse until now and worse is coming.
 So this is one thing and later I will tell you about the Apodion, the destroyer, the spirit that is behind this. How is he working? How is he making this happen?
 The second thing I want to say is the blindness that is covering all the people. Most people now they are trusting some bloggers and they have some political stand.
 They either support this or that and they are brainwashed in that paradigm. They are part of some narrative. They believe some narrative.
 For example that there is great danger coming from Putin. He is the worst guy. Or on the other hand some people say no, all the dangers come from NATO and the United States. They are the bad guys.
 And you believe some narrative, some propaganda, let's call it what it is. But you think that it is your own opinion and everyone is like that. Almost everyone you meet now.
 They would be listening to some kind of bloggers, have some kind of mindset, left, right, pro something and it is almost impossible to talk to them if you are not in their camp.
 So this phenomenon is also a big time phenomenon these days. You can notice it in the people around you. People are blinded like zombies without their own thinking.
 Being blinded by someone else and thinking that it is their own opinion which is not. They are just part of some swarm. They are just like flies flying in the same direction.
 Or those drones flying in the same direction. Or that herd of swine. Remember the Lord showed us how this happens when the herd of 2,000 swine all rushed from that precipice into the sea and drowned in that sea.
 That's what's going on with the world right now. Let us not become part of this spirit of this world doing this.
 The third thing that we see is the big crisis within the church. The church is the most evident manifestation of the mystery of piety.
 There is this mystery of lawlessness and the mystery of piety. They are conflicting, they are confronting each other.
 And the mystery of piety is that God became man and he created the holy church so that people can receive the kingdom of heaven and become children of their heavenly father and have the kingdom of heaven live in them and transform them.
 So this is the presence of God in this world. Direct, physical, incarnated. So the body of Christ in this world, which is the church, would show us what's going on with the mystery of piety.
 And we see that this is in crisis, which also becomes worse. From 2018 we see a big split within the Orthodox Church, which is the true church.
 And this split is not a healthy sign. And also there is this problem of politicizing the church, using it as part of some national agenda.
 Or blessing the war as though it's a sacred war, like it was for the Jews in those days. They were fighting for the sacred land, the promised land, and they were dying in this Jewish war.
 And the Lord has never blessed those things. These are similar processes and I've talked about it in other videos. So just to mention this, and these problems, these splits and wars and other worldliness that's taking place within the holy church is stumbling so many people.
 It becomes a scandal for many people and they are leaving the church. I can see it now. Well, you see, people are leaving the church. It has two reasons.
 One, of course, is coming from this bad example of the church. Another is coming from their own worldly attachment, from the mammon that they are getting more and more attached to.
 I can see it very well. For example, we have many channels where I post some information about the church, about spiritual life, about the prayer meetings.
 And it's not political. There is nothing political about it. And people used to be interested, but now some are losing their interest because they're immersed in this worldly stuff.
 And they have no interest in what is divine, in prayer, in repentance. So this is what's happening also. The devil is pulling the people's hearts away from the body of Christ.
 Okay, the fourth thing that's going on is that society and Christians also become more and more pitiless.
 They become much more... all these breaks are removed. These breaks that you should not talk about things like, I don't know, mass murder, use of atomic weapons against anyone.
 Or some other things, cruel stuff. No, now people say, no, it's war. Now we need to use this and that. Those are bad guys. Whatever, we can do this, we can do that.
 Okay, this hatred and this lack of any compassion for some people is also increasing. This is due to the movies that people are watching, the games that they're playing, the news that they're listening to, these bloggers.
 Okay, these bloggers, these people, but I will talk about it in a sec. So these are four things I want to mention about the world as a whole.
 And I could say that what is behind it? Because some people say it's because of some rules, okay, some conspiracy theories.
 It could be because of some rulers or it's bad guys like Putin or someone else. Other people say, no, it's because the people are sinners and because of that we are slipping into that.
 Well, both is true, okay, and both is true because there are no real Christians either up there or down here, okay, or like very bad Christians, okay.
 And even good Christians are weak in their faith. And all of that allows what? Allows this mystery of lawlessness to expand. And behind it is not some secret government, world government,
 okay, which maybe it exists, I don't know for sure. But what I know for sure is that there is this spirit of Apollyon, which is behind it, spirit of Apollyon.
 This word comes from Greek verb apolio. Apolio means to destroy, annihilate, okay, the annihilator, destroyer, demolition man, okay.
 The one who destroys not just lives, but also the souls of people. He's pulling the people into the abyss, the abyss of apostasy, the abyss of sin, okay, the abyss of lawlessness, breaking all the limitations, all the restrictions, okay, all the borders.
 This is what he likes, okay. So all the four things which I've just mentioned above, they are all about breaking some borders, passing some borders.
 So this new expansion of the war, which has happened just last week in Russia, is another expansion making it happen, okay.
 There was never any war on the Russian territory from World War II. Now there is. Now we have war there also, okay. So, okay, before that, of course, Russia invading Ukraine.
 That's also the same thing, okay, I've been there, I saw it. So I'm not now saying who is wrong, who is right, okay, this is another big topic.
 But we see that this, you know, area, this gray area, area of war, area of lawlessness, area of lack of any rules and government is expanding, okay, this area of Antichrist, let's call it that way.
 Okay, so this is like the cancer, okay, is expanding, it's taking new parts of the body, it's expanding, becoming worse.
 Okay, having said that, I don't want you to feel that this Apollyon, the devil is behind it, evidently.
 However, it's not all capable, okay, it's not God, okay, we should, we despise him and we laugh at him, we are mocking him, okay, this is fine to mock devil and his works.
 For a Christian loyal to Christ, this is nothing, okay, this is nothing.
 So, let us not be, have any fear about devil and whatever he does, okay, but let us know what's going on, let us not be ignorant of this, okay, we should be brave and we should be vigilant, okay, knowing what is going on.
 Not to be too naive and rosy about things.
 So, okay, let's avoid this deification of evil, okay, not to make it some evil God, okay, no, we don't take him as God, he's garbage, okay.
 And also what's going on with us, okay, like every one of us, we are slipping into routine, okay, every one of us is in some routine, some busy things doing this and that, maybe it's not routine.
 By routine, I mean just involvement in some agenda from morning till night, just look at your day, okay, we wake up and we run, run, run, run, run, we do this, we do that, it's either some work or some home matters or some entertainment, but it's always, okay, running somewhere.
 Or it's just not doing anything, but not spending this time for the Lord, just wasting time, okay, slothfulness.
 So, we should understand, okay, that the time is running so fast for us is because of that, because we're always busy or always chasing something.
 And it's so important just to stop for five minutes, 10 minutes to think about your life, about God, about prayer, about repentance, okay, these will be fundamental.
 The whole direction of our life may be switched when we do such stops and think deeply about who we are and where we're going.
 So, it is very important for us to practice spiritual life and prayer. It will teach us how to find this quietness, how to stop in this crazy world, which is always running somewhere.
 This is very, very important to have peace in your soul, to have this eternal spiritual dimension in your life. This is super important in our days.
 And another thing which is happening with us, and it's big time, is bombardment of all kinds of information, news, chats, conversation.
 We're involved in some conversation, in some chat rooms, telegram, in WhatsApp, in Facebook, we are listening to YouTube all the time, some bloggers, to this and that, okay, there is so much stuff coming into us that we lose spiritual sight.
 We are blinded by this immense amount of information and emotions, feelings, passions associated with it.
 So spiritually, we are in chaos. Our internal life, our world, inner world, is all upside down. These bloggers that we are listening to, you will see that most of them are crazy, like spiritual, they have spiritual and psychological issues.
 Many of them are degenerate, okay? I'm not using bad language, okay? It's just a medical condition, okay? If you study, there is the degenerology, such a discipline, okay?
 That people, they are degenerating, okay? And many moral distortions are related to some mental and physical distortions in people.
 Many things are inherited and getting worse and worse from generation to generation, and through the exposure that the people have in their life, and through their sins that they're committing.
 So we need to be mindful of that, that we are perceiving all of that and we are also being influenced by that.
 So it is so important to have a fast, fasting. Now is fasting time, and there should be always fasting against such things. We should not be completely all the time listening to some stuff, okay? Or being influenced by some stuff.
 If you feel that your heart is not in peace, okay, pray, use Jesus' prayer, okay? Calm down, okay? Separate yourself from this turmoil of this world.
 So having said all this, we should, I want to make a conclusion that we see the spirit of Apollyon, he is a very wise and very tricky spirit, which is making these cows progress in a gradual way, not too fast.
 So for example, this new burst of the war in Russia is doing to some degree, and then it's keeping there, okay? Getting ready for something more.
 It's not doing things too fast, because then it's going to be shut down fast.
 This means that he wants it to be long term, okay? He wants the world and this harm that he does to this world, this cancer, he wants it to develop in a gradual and long term fashion.
 So for us, as we see this sketchy, this wise, wicked plan expanding itself, okay?
 We should know that the real front line is not in Ukraine or in Russia or in Israel. The real front line is in our heart, okay?
 He is trying to conquer everyone's heart, especially Christians, Orthodox Christians or people who are on this path to Orthodox Christianity.
 He is trying to break through your heart, my heart. This is where his true aim is. And when he succeeds, okay, we lose big time. We can forget about war, okay? He already won. We already lost.
 So this is something I want to stress, brothers and sisters. Let us keep this protection, okay? Let us be on guard of our hearts.
 Let us become strong soldiers of Christ, warriors of Christ, okay? Conquering the devil, overthrowing him, kicking him out. When we will be victorious ourselves individually, people around us will also become victorious, okay?
 They will also see this spiritual life, their faith will become alive. And this is great threat to the devil. And this is great pleasure to Christ.
 We will be bringing fruits of love, of humbleness, of self-sacrifice, of prayer, spiritual life to our Lord.
 And this is why he came to this world. May he give us such strength. May he give us the motivation, the inspiration to do this testimony, to be in this company of saints and in the footsteps of apostles.
 As apostle Paul says, you should be like me as I am like Christ. I live Christ. We should live Christ. We should have him manifested to this world.
 May the Lord help us on this path in this ministry. May he give us consolation and joy among all the turmoils, among all the dangers and the seeds that are trying to encompass, trying to cover the whole world with darkness.
 May the Lord keep us, make us the children of light and have his life and resurrection work in our hearts. I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
