 Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church is celebrating the dermission of the Most
 Holy Theotokos.
 This is a very joyful feast.
 But if we think about it, we might wonder why death of a saint is a celebration.
 Why do we celebrate the end of life?
 It should be some sorrowful event.
 Well, this is carnal logic.
 And to penetrate into any truth of faith, we have to receive the spiritual revelation.
 You remember when the Apostle Peter, he answered to the Lord on the question "Who are you?"
 He said, "You are Messiah, you are the anointed one, the son of the living God."
 And he said, "It's not the flesh and blood who reveal this to you, it's my Father in
 heaven.
 He revealed to you these things."
 So whenever we want to have a true understanding, it's not enough just to use our brain and
 our logic to arrive to some conclusions as is very common in scholasticism.
 But in the true Christianity, we need revelation from the Holy Spirit to be able to comprehend
 such things.
 And before I talk about the dermission itself, I want to emphasize that before this feast
 we had a two-week land, it's a dermission land.
 We have four lands in the church, not counting those one-day land and every Wednesday and
 Friday, but longer lands, it's four lands.
 One of them is dermission, it's the shortest one actually, only two weeks.
 And this land is dedicated completely to the mother of God.
 So during this land, the goal is to penetrate deeper into this mystery of the mother of
 God.
 And understanding of this mystery brings us to the understanding of incarnation, of the
 Lord's coming to this world.
 If we don't understand Mother Mary, we don't understand Jesus Christ.
 And like Protestants, they don't understand.
 So they don't understand incarnation, and this is why it's a heresy.
 But we need to penetrate deeply into this mystery.
 And this brings us to several very important things.
 One of them is that most Holy Theotokos, she became the second Eve.
 Because the first Eve was the one who gave life, okay?
 All humans were born from Eve in terms of receiving their life.
 Of course, the life is given by God, but the role of a mother is very important.
 This is why in Hebrew, Eve means life.
 And Adam called her life, "You are life."
 He had this talent, he has this understanding, he was able to see, to penetrate the essence,
 what he sees.
 "Oh, you are life."
 This is what he said when he saw Eve.
 So she became the mother of all humanity, of all subsequent generations.
 But the first forefathers, Adam and Eve, they fell, they fell, they were chased away from
 the Garden of Eden, and they were expecting the salvation.
 And salvation came in Jesus Christ, and he became the second Adam.
 He restored the first Adam, and he gave the salvation and true union with God to every
 human who received him and follows him.
 And Eve, sorry, and his mother, the ever-virgin Mary, she became the second Eve because she
 became the one who gave birth to Jesus.
 And she participated in this mystery.
 This is why Apostle Luke gives us a detailed account of how this happened.
 And this is very important, and some heretics, they have very blasphemous ideas, they just
 say, "Oh, she just has flesh, so God, he had to come, so he had to get this flesh from
 somewhere.
 Okay, so he used her flesh, okay, I use your flesh, I become flesh, I become human, and
 this is it.
 Okay, you are just a piece of flesh that I use.
 This is a blasphemy, okay?
 Because the spiritual relationship between mother and son, even in any family, in any
 mother-son relationship, is a very deep relationship.
 It's not just you take flesh from this person.
 It's a very deep spiritual relationship.
 And the Lord was born of her, and she became the only person on earth who can call him
 my son.
 No one, no one else can say that.
 He is our Lord, but he is not our son, okay?
 We are his children, we try to become his children.
 So this is why he also has a very deep filial love and obedience, respect, reverence.
 Be reverent, respect your father and your mother, okay?
 He has this filial love and respect towards his mother.
 And he doesn't have it towards anyone else on earth, okay?
 So this deep mystery is bringing us into appreciation of who the mother of God is and why she was
 chosen to become such a human, of her pure life, her pure heart, and how she fearlessly
 followed him despite all the humiliation she had to go through, despite the pain that she
 was promised to endure because she will become mother of Messiah.
 And she gave, she had that pain, okay, big time when he was betrayed and crucified.
 And of course, and everyone thought that he's a bastard, okay, when they said that, oh,
 he is a carpenter, son of Mary, it was a great abuse and rudeness to say to, to say about
 someone that he is son of Mary, of his mother, because everybody said he's a son of his father,
 okay?
 And if you say he's son of his mother, that means that he has no father, that he's a bastard.
 Okay.
 So they lived, both Jesus and Mary, they lived with all this humiliation, all their life,
 and experiencing all this injustice, all this slander, she had such a great love towards
 everyone and towards her son, and cared about people, remember, when they were in this
 Kanna celebration, she cared about their problem, they have no wine left.
 We can talk a lot about this, but today I also want to say about the Dermition and how
 it's related to our own life.
 You see, for the mother of God, her Dermition became the end point, the, not just the end
 point, but it became the completion of her life, okay, the final result, the goal of
 all her life, okay, she gained this reward, if you wish, the wrath of glory that is given
 to the righteous, and the Lord himself came to take her soul into the heavens, and she
 gained the new life, and in this new life, she dedicated herself to prayer on behalf
 of all of us, all of the people who love Jesus and who want to follow him.
 So she, it's not death, this is why we call it Dermition, okay, this is Dermition in this
 life, before the resurrection, upon the second coming of Christ, and also during this time,
 the life with all the righteous in the heavens, in prayer, and in communication, communion
 with all the church, both in the heavens and on earth.
 So this is why, for us, this is a great joy, a great consolation, that if we dedicate ourselves
 to this path, this path of salvation, it's a narrow path, which is so hard to find.
 The Lord himself said in the Gospel of Matthew that so few of those who find this narrow
 path and follow it, but so many, great number and multitude, are walking on the path to
 Avaddon, destruction, this, they perish, Avaddon is the deepest part of the hell, okay, so
 we don't want to walk towards this Avaddon, we want to follow this narrow path, no matter
 how hard it is, no matter what it takes, but to be loyal to Christ, to fight with all evil,
 all sin, all passion, all blindness, okay, all the filthiness, all this worldly corruption
 that is surrounding us, and we have this great consolation, that if we do this, we will gain
 repose, we will gain this blessed arrest and reward from our Lord, and we will be embraced
 by him, we will be taken by the angels to his bosom, and we will be united with the
 church in heaven and on earth in this joy.
 So brothers and sisters, let us be thankful to the Lord, that he places us on this path,
 let us be completely dedicated to this path, no matter what it takes, okay, have a decision,
 decisiveness to go through any challenge that we may go through.
 This feast of permission doesn't mean that we are hoping to die soon, no, by no means,
 we are hoping to walk this path, to accomplish this mission that is given to us by the Lord
 in this life, no matter how big this mission is, how many years, how many challenges yet
 we have to go through, we are willing and hopeful that we can do this and accomplish
 this and at the end receive this blessed reward together with all the saints in his kingdom.
 May the Lord strengthen us on this path, may the mother of God pray for us, help us, strengthen
 our faith, protect us from every evil, from every unpure, unholy thought, from slipping
 into any sin or passion, and may he sanctify us, make us victorious on this path, amen.
 Merry Dormition of the Lord, brothers and sisters, Amen.
