 Dear brothers and sisters, we still celebrate dermition of the most holy Theotokos and the
 color blue is symbolizing the purity of heart and life of Mother Mary, like the sky is blue.
 So we are still in this celebration and today I want to say more about something I mentioned
 in my last video, about the blindness, the spiritual blindness.
 This is something very important because this is the key to several problems.
 There are three types of problems coming from spiritual blindness.
 One is disbelief.
 When people don't believe obvious things, you tell them about God, about Christ, well,
 you tell them about virtue, but they either don't believe, they believe something else,
 or they even say yes, yes, but they don't change and they just live in their wrong way.
 Or they may just believe in some crazy stuff, atheism, I don't know, some crazy philosophy
 or Buddhism, Hinduism, some paganism, some sect, some Scientology, some weird nonsense,
 and garbage.
 It's obvious that it's garbage, but for some reason they still believe that garbage.
 And another problem is wrong belief.
 What I mean by wrong belief or crooked, this is non-orthodox, this is heresy.
 You sort of believe in Christ, but not in the true Christ.
 You believe in the Pope, or you believe that there is no church, that you have thousands
 different churches, and there is no sacraments, even though Christ himself said that "whoever
 doesn't drink my blood and eat my flesh will not have life".
 But still people don't want to believe, and they believe in some heresy.
 So this is another problem.
 And the third problem is what is happening with us, with the Orthodox Christians very
 often, is lack of faith.
 Lack of faith that in difficult moments we fail, we sin, or we get into despondency,
 or into cold faith, nominal faith.
 We pretend that we are faithful, but we don't live according to our faith, we don't pray,
 we don't fast, we are afraid of many things, we don't trust God.
 This is lack of faith, so we sort of believe in Christ, but we are lacking this belief.
 And this is also maybe not complete blindness, but this is very close, it can get to full
 blindness.
 So what is this blindness, where does it come from, what do we do about it?
 Do we just say "oh, these people, they are just predestined for destruction, they love
 error, they love darkness, be it so".
 Or we can do something about it.
 First of all we need to understand what is this thing all about, because this will influence
 how do we go about overcoming this, how people get out of this blindness.
 Maybe saying many things is not so useful, maybe we need to do something else.
 First of all let's look at Gospel according to John chapter 8, 42-47, 42-43.
 Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, you would love me.
 For I proceeded forth and came from God, neither came I of myself, but he sent me.
 Why do you not understand my speech, even because you cannot hear my word?
 Here Saint Hippolyta of Rome, Holy Father of the 3rd century, he tells us, he indicates
 that here Jesus doesn't say you don't want to hear my word, to hear my voice, my word
 taught my voice, but he says you cannot hear my word, you are unable, you don't have this
 ability to hear my word, what does this mean?
 So what is their failure, what is their, it's not their problem, they are not guilty if
 they cannot, well no, they are guilty and to understand why they cannot, let us read the
 remainder of this passage, verse 44, you are of your father the devil, and the last of
 your father you will do, he was, you do, the original is you do, the last of your father
 you do, and you do the last of your father, he was a murderer from the beginning and abode
 not in the truth, because there is no truth in him, when he speaketh a lie he speaketh
 of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it, and because I tell you the truth you
 believe me not, which of you convinceth me of sin, and if I say the truth, why do you
 not believe me, he that is of God heareth God's words, you therefore hear them not because
 you are not of God, these people they are not of God, they are not God's people, why?
 Because they do the last of their father, they do what devil wants, this is the reason,
 as soon as people do the will of devil, they will lose the ability to hear the word of
 God, so when we sin, when we don't fast, we live according to the flesh, we will lose
 the ability to hear the will of God, this is the key reason, we will love the darkness
 more and more, we will love the old self, this is why all the heretics they are against
 true fasting and repentance, they don't like fasting, they don't like repentance, they
 are not repentant sinners, they think they are holy and they are justified and everything
 is fine, but the Lord came to those who are sinners to call them for repentance, you remember,
 those are the ones to whom the Lord came.
 Now to understand better these things let us also take a look the Gospel of John chapter
 12 verse 36-40, okay, the Lord, these are words of the Lord, while you have light, believe
 in the light, that you may be the children of light, these things spake Jesus and departed
 and hid himself from them, but though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they
 believed not on him, that the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake,
 Lord, who hath believed our report, and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
 Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again, he that blinded their
 eyes, he hath blinded their eyes, God hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart,
 that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted,
 and I shall heal them.
 We see that people, including us, including every one of us, we tend to darkness, we tend
 to love darkness.
 And what is this darkness?
 The darkness, it could be a sinful life for man, okay, Gedonism, life for enjoyment, have
 a nice day, drink, eat, travel, shopping, this and that, nice music, okay, for yourself,
 everything just for self-satisfaction, including your family, okay, it's big you, okay, you
 just, oh, it's my family, okay, you, everything just for enjoyment, okay, okay, Gedonism.
 It could be maybe some fake teaching, maybe you love some philosophy, Heidegger, or something
 else, okay, this is another darkness.
 Or maybe you slip into some hobby which overcomes you, you want to do it all day, this hobby,
 okay.
 Or maybe you are in art, okay, every day you spend in the art, maybe go to theater, or
 I don't know, music, you listen to all kinds of music, or maybe you do science, you research,
 you write papers, and this is everything, you don't have time, you don't have willingness
 to pray, to communicate with the Lord, that becomes your idol, okay, all of this is just
 different types of idol worshiping, maybe you build something, you build a nice house,
 you make a decoration in your home, okay, you are busy with this project, okay, you
 have some passionate involvement in something, maybe some literature, fiction, movies, maybe
 these bloggers, chat, all that kind of stuff, okay, you're all into it, that's darkness.
 You love darkness more than you love light, and it will just completely blind you, you
 will not be able to hear the word of God, you will not be willing to pray, to repent,
 to seek the truth, okay, it's not that you will not choose not to want, you will not
 be able, even when you hear the truth, you will bounce out, you will bounce back, okay.
 So let us be very careful, this is why the Lord stressed vigilance, be vigilant, you
 have to know what's going on in your heart, okay, is it departing, is it becoming your
 faith, you're losing your faith, we need to love fasting, we need to love self-sacrifice,
 we need to love to live the gospel, not just know, not just learn, but to live the gospel.
 So very often if you want to help someone else to overcome this blindness, it's not
 enough just to say things, yes, sometimes you do need to say to witness with your word,
 but it's much more important to show the example of your life, how your life has changed, what
 does it mean that you now love people more than you love yourself, okay, you're ready
 to sacrifice yourself for others, what does this mean, do you help them, do you sacrifice
 your time, your energy for nothing, do you love your enemies, do you forget some evil
 that other people have done to you, is this something real in your life, people are waiting
 for such example, if they don't see it, they will not be convinced, they will not be willing
 to try, to try to change their own life, to depart from that demon ministry, to demons.
 And this is on a big scale, this is what helps the mammon accomplish its goals, its agendas,
 but this is something I will be talking later about, today I really want every one of you
 to think deeply about this darkness, this blindness, this spiritual blindness, you may
 have diplomas, we have all the diplomas in the world, but be same blind man, okay, this
 is what it is. May the Lord help us get rid of this blindness, have a strong and alive
 faith, loving heart, and willingness to serve him no matter what. Get rid of all the darkness,
 there is still darkness in our hearts of every one of us, we need to set this goal, I want
 to get rid of all the darkness without remainder, be it through suffering, be it through fasting,
 be it through anything, pain, okay, I'm willing, may the Lord help us, get rid of it, strengthen
 us in our faith, cleanse us from every impurity, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
