 Dear brothers and sisters, the Orthodox Church is known for its traditionalism.
 Most importantly, the holy tradition, which is passing all the way from the apostles.
 Tradition "tradere", to give over.
 It's something that was given over from generation to generation of Christians and which is preserving
 us in unity with Christ through the right faith, through the right spirituality, where
 the Holy Spirit lives and is guiding the Church through the centuries.
 However, since we, many of us, are weak in our spirituality, and I will explain this
 a bit more in the end, we understand this traditionalism very often in the wrong way.
 And today I want to say about seven types of fake traditionalisms that are very common
 within the Orthodox Church.
 There was a video also that I made about the points of breaking into the Church, maybe if you want to see that one also it will be helpful.
 So what are these fake traditionalisms?
 The first one, which is now especially evident, is this adherence to nationalism or government, nation, some political agenda.
 And this happens with those churches which became as big as a country.
 And I'm not talking only about Russia, other smaller countries, Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece, they also have this problem that traditionalism may be understood as bond with the government.
 This is Cesarism, Caesar, being too close to Caesar, and this is not the holy tradition.
 Even though, yes, there were historical events which contribute to this closer bond, but
 it by no means is inherent in the Church faith itself.
 So we have to be free of anything, any nationalistic or any political government agenda thing which
 will try to use us for its own purpose.
 And many people are misled by this.
 And we know what it all leads to, that people who go to Church go to war with each other.
 So the world has changed from what it was 1,500 years ago, but some of the mindsets
 are still there.
 So let us be aware of this fake traditionalism.
 The Lord told the two apostles, John and Jacob, when they wanted to destroy that Samaritan
 village with fire, he said, "You don't know what spirit you are of.
 The spirit of gospel is the spirit of love."
 And this political traditionalism is perverting the very essence of the gospel.
 So let us be aware of this and not become victim of this.
 The second fake traditionalism is the so-called old believers, old right, old right traditionalism.
 What's wrong about that kind of traditionalism?
 It's a big story what the old right is.
 There is one in Russia, there is one in Greece, in other countries.
 The old right has a spirit of, you can kill someone for just one letter.
 If you don't go by these letters, you go to hell.
 So the right, how you do, how you move, what you say, it all has to fit some magical formula
 for it to work.
 And if it doesn't, you go to hell, you are heretic, it doesn't work, it's all fake.
 So this obsession about some formal things and hatred to anyone who is outside of this
 small circle, be it the church, the patriarchal church in Russia, for example, of course it's
 the church of Antichrist, and the government is Antichrist, and you find Antichrist under
 every bush, he's hidden somewhere, and it's also gloomy, so we live in this satanic world,
 everywhere is satan, everybody is, now they say, you're chipped, everybody is chipped,
 if you don't agree with them, you're chipped, that kind of spirit, I think you got it.
 So it's all kinds of phobias and hatred and this paranoia, so let us beware of this thing.
 It's present not only in the old believers, it's present in the church, in the Orthodox
 church itself, in the canonical church, so beware of it.
 The third one is quite common among missionaries, it's somewhat similar, but different, I would
 call it legalism, legalism, you know, this fitting the kennels, you have to go by the
 kennels in every small detail, if you depart from it a little bit, okay, you go to hell,
 and you're heretic, you're a sect, you're whatever, okay, so for example, there are
 kennels that forbid you from going to bath, to this public bath together with a Jew, so
 for example, in your fitness club, if there is a Jew, and you go with him to the same
 shower room, okay, you're doomed, okay, you violate the canon, you go to hell, so this
 is just an example, okay, I think you may get the meaning, so usually it's a very literal
 understanding of the Bible, okay, do you believe that the world was created in six days, 24
 hour periods, six 24 hour periods, this is how they will put their question, yes or no,
 yes or no, no, you say maybe it's something else, you're heretic, okay, you go to hell,
 so this kind of spirit, and quite many missionaries, they have a great zeal, they go and preach
 this thing, and this is also very far away from the gospel, very far away, you call them
 brave men, I call them psychologically imbalanced, okay, to say the least, and it's also of course
 a Pharisee spirit, another fourth type of fake traditionalism is, I would call it, you
 know, to put it simple, you hate LGBT, okay, you hate LGBT and everything that's related
 with these liberal values, okay, and this becomes the the main content of your life,
 you are orthodox because you hate all those things, so you cannot say anything else about
 your faith, but that you are against these faggots, okay, so this is something that is
 also quite common, I don't say we approve those things, we don't, by no means, it's
 mortal sin, but we're not obsessed about always screaming just about those things, okay, there
 is, there was a movement in Russia before revolution, it's called Black Hundred, Black
 Hundred, it was a very low class people, peasants, like people from the very low social strata,
 and they were radically protecting the orthodoxy, so most of those Jewish pogroms, and they
 were done by people associated, affiliated with this Black Hundred, in those days it
 was not as radical as now, so in those days some saints, for example saint John of Kronstadt,
 they were even blessing these these movements, but nowadays this became like a paramilitary
 group of fanatics, who, for example, there is a very famous one, it's called Death or
 Orthodoxy, okay, and they wear these black t-shirts, like satanistic t-shirts with skulls
 and they're all like really hostile, they go on these parades and they try to scare
 you to say you, if you touch orthodoxy you're gonna die, okay, so this is also transmitting
 some kind of spirit which is far, far away from the gospel, okay, so I think you also
 got the idea.
 Another type of fake traditionalism is the, I would call it like a souvenir, like a Hochlomah
 or Matryoshka, okay, it's all about this aesthetic feeling about, okay, those churches,
 they have those cupolas, they are so nice, okay, we dress, okay, they like all kinds
 of dressing, okay, now we dress, we go on a procession of the cross, okay, make a lot
 of pictures, okay, this is, okay, it looks so nice, so beautiful, this is orthodoxy,
 okay, so this is like a cosplay, you know, this is like so fake, this is so superficial,
 but for some people this is orthodoxy, believe it or not.
 So this is, okay, some degeneration, degenerate form of religion, okay, it's also fetishism,
 you can call it, okay, because those pagans, they love all kinds of different masquerades
 and stuff like that, so please beware of this thing also, this is not true orthodoxy, okay.
 Another of the six fake traditionalism is some kind of obsession about miracles.
 Miracles or some elders who will, like fortune tellers, okay, they will tell you something
 like oracles, you know, they will tell you something from God, okay, so you go somewhere
 far away in Siberia, in lineup, you see an elder and he told you two words, okay, and
 this is all your faith, okay, it's all obsessed about those elders and miracles and you collect
 all kinds of miracles, oh, you know, there something happened and here something happened
 and this and that and you are like excited about all these things, so you don't really
 get what the faith is, who is Christ, you never even open the gospel, maybe.
 So this is another thing and we have tons of these miracles coming from those Byzantine
 legendary like fairy tale style writings that we inherit from the Middle Ages, okay, and
 people are reading them and they are getting excited about it, but it's more of a folk
 tales, okay, it should not be taken so literally, okay, as an icon, okay, an icon is not a photograph,
 so you should not say like on an icon we have a mother of God with three hands, it doesn't
 mean that she had three hands, okay, so this is another topic I don't want to go into it,
 but please be aware of this kind of fake traditionalism, it's like a fantasy fairy tale, imaginary
 religion, okay, some metaverse, okay, metaverse for Orthodox and the seventh, the seventh
 is also very common, it's when you believe that the Orthodox faith is all about dogma,
 okay, the right theology, okay, and all false dogmas, they make people non-Orthodox heretics,
 so you just need to know these dogmas or at least you need to say I approve these dogmas,
 many people don't even know them, okay, but these are the dogmas, I accept these Orthodox,
 so it's all about me accepting those and that's why I'm saved, I'm special, I'm Christian,
 hallelujah, okay, and nothing else, and I don't need to do much else, I just need to
 adhere to these dogmas and this will make me saved, so this is another very rationalistic
 and very superficial also understanding, demons they also know all the dogmas, okay, but they
 don't love God and they are not saved, so just knowing dogmas is not enough, okay, it's
 very good, it's important, yes, but this is not enough, this is not something to be boasting
 about, okay, we preserve this dogmas, yes, but there is also spiritual teaching, there
 is this practice of spiritual practice and this is, now I'm coming to a conclusion, I
 want to point out something, I feel all these people who fall into these traps are lacking,
 all of them would be lacking understanding of the cross, take up thy cross and follow
 me, go this narrow path to salvation, humble yourself, repent your sins, so these people
 they don't really know what this is, they don't really take up their cross and for them
 something else, some other fetish, yes, it's traditional, it seems traditional, it's not
 liberal, but it becomes some other idol, okay, and they are slipping into some fake spirituality
 and proudness and usually they will be locked in this worldview, okay, and they will be
 led by the so-called spiritual leaders who are also blind in some of those delusions,
 so let us be aware, of course there are even more, I've mentioned seven, but there are
 many more fake ways to understand traditional conservative within the church, may the Lord
 keep us away from all these traps, give us the wisdom, keep us faithful, keep us loyal
 to Christ, send down his Holy Spirit upon us, help us on this narrow path to salvation
 to become good witnesses of his love, of humbleness, humility, compassion to others and to bring
 the word of gospel, the love of the gospel to everyone around us, I mean, God bless brothers
 and sisters.
