 Dear brothers and sisters, in our daily life and also in our faith we can get into negative mood and we can get into positive mood.
 But neither of these moods has God in it.
 For example, sometimes we feel low and we are upset, we are upset about God, about what happened and He allowed this to happen, or about the world, about life.
 And even when we go to pray, our heart is somewhere else.
 We pray because we are supposed to pray. So we don't trust the Lord. We think that the prayer does not work.
 When we think like this, it does not work. When we just automatically say words, Lord have mercy, Lord have mercy, Lord have mercy, counting, this prayer does not go to God. God does not hear this prayer.
 In case that we are positive, we are positive, we do this, we do that, we have a good mood, as though it's me, I am doing this, I am successful, I am smart, I am whatever, I am lucky.
 There is also no God. I do this as though there is no God. And when I do it as though there is no God, there is no God in my life.
 On the level of society, we can say, here in China, next to Taiwan, it's communism, it's similar to what, well, it's not communism, but it is the atheist ideology.
 So when most people, they believe there is no God, they don't want to have God in their life, it's actually more about relationship, it's not about your ideas, it's more about relationship.
 It's easier, you think it's easier to live without God. And we used to have it in the Soviet Union.
 I grew up in a place where there was no church, only factories all around that town where we lived, and it's not far from Moscow, but still in the town itself there was not a single church, and people lived as though there is no God.
 Most people were atheists, like maybe, I don't know, 90%, you wouldn't notice anyone who would not be different.
 And in such a world, it feels as though there is no God. In that sense, we can distinguish two types also.
 We can see positive, positive when people construct these factories in the socialist, communist places, industrial, building this and that.
 And in the post-industrial world, it's also about market and prosperity and building high-rises and shopping malls, and it looks like there is something going on, and no God is needed to do advertising.
 You need Mammon, you need another God. You need Mammon, you need to be persuaded that those idols, they mean something, and you need to be like this and like that, with all those lipsticks, with all these new gadgets, clothing.
 No God, no need for God, you just need to have enough money in your wallet, and you become part of that world.
 That's Babylon, we have socialist type of thing, dictatorship type of thing, we have this so-called capitalism, which is not capitalism anymore.
 And it's all about building, building something, some idols, and this does not need God, so God withdraws himself also, seems to withdraw himself.
 For majority of people, so this is why in this world there is always plane crashes, construction crashes, building collapsing, as though there is no God.
 And then all of a sudden wars unexpectedly burst out, and people think where is God, where is God, how come he allows this to happen?
 Or those Columbines, something coming out, some crazy guy killing a bunch of people, innocent students or something, as though there is no God. When the society lives as though there is no God, there is no God.
 Well, there is God, but it looks like there is not God. He doesn't take much care about people who don't respond to him, he is calling, he is calling sometimes very patiently for a long time, but at some point he says, "Okay, you don't want, just leave as you want, I leave you alone, this is worse."
 And another type of apostasy, another type of departing of a life without God is of course this destructive.
 Go to Africa, go to some mid-east country where people are killing each other every day massively, everything is ruined, people suffer, blood, bombs coming and this and that.
 That's another thing, that's another way of experiencing this apostatic life, and it seems that there is no God.
 In those places, like we see in Utopia, post-apocalyptic, well, it's actually the same thing. This so-called successful bright future without God, or this level-ruined world with, I don't know, like, what was that movie, Crazy Max, or something like that.
 Mad Max.
 When people depart from God, let's talk about individuals, it works similarly on the level of society, but let's talk on individual level.
 Basically, when you don't trust the true God, you find another one. It's not that you just leave like that. No, you will find something else.
 You will find what? You will find maybe Occultism, Astrology, some superstition, you would be believing in Astrology and Astrology will overtake your life. You will be finding, you would seem to find some proof that it's working, so it would have, you know, those fake miracles in your life.
 You would interpret it in such a way that you would really see that it works, but it's all fake.
 Or your God becomes Mammon. You think that purchasing, consuming stuff, that's the goal. Well, then you will get into credits. You will buy houses, vacations, cars, you will get into this Kabbalah, and it's not only credit, financial Kabbalah, it will be spiritual Kabbalah.
 You will be attached to that thing. That will be your world. That will be all your worries all there. That will be your God, fake God, but it will be in total control of what you do, what you think, and how you feel.
 Well, some people believe in their government, some strong leader like totalitarian, authoritarian, they think yes, oh, it's like sun in the sky, our leader, okay, something like this.
 Well, then if you believe that, say you believe in Communist Party, you believe in some other dictator, he will be your God. He will take you as a meat for war, as some resource for his goals, for his economy, for his crazy projects.
 He will just use you. Well, say you're from democratic, so-called democratic country, then you believe in economy. You believe that it's all about, you know, financial markets and about economic stability.
 That will be your God. You will be influenced so much, you observe, you always read those news, what is going on, that will determine your life in a very surprising way.
 So, it works like a mirror, you know, with God, it works like a mirror, and with any other fake God. Of course, with God, it is not completely like mirror, okay, it's not completely like a mirror.
 With God, he would still try to put you on the right path, okay, unlike some fake God. So, it's not completely, you know, people are not completely abandoned.
 He might be converting, you know, we can recall those people in Gadara, when Jesus came, he healed those demon-possessed two men, and then all the city came and they saw that their pigs are, you know, drowned in the sea, and they asked him to go away.
 Okay, that's apostasy, okay, we don't want God, we don't want to change our life, we don't want God. And he says, okay, you don't want me, I go. However, he has mercy for them.
 So, he is sending this one who was demon-possessed to preach to them, to tell them how God had mercy on them. So, with God, it's not total, you know, totally abandoning, unless it's completely, you know, well, no hope.
 Well, what other examples? There are examples of negative gods. For example, some people, even Christians, even Orthodox, they believe in total domination of some digital control, which is coming, or world government, which is trying to, you know, brainwash everyone and control all the world.
 Well, maybe this is true. Okay, this is true to some extent. However, if we think that this power is absolute and total, and we become afraid of it, then we will become slaves.
 That will be our God. Even though we hate it, we don't want it, it will be our God. We will lose trust in the Lord, we will lose peace of mind.
 Okay, we will be always worried about those barcodes, and everything will be obsessed about all this. It will become paranoia, it will become, for us, enslavement. So, that's something to expect to also be aware of.
 Any conspiracy. If you are too much obsessed about some conspiracy, it will kill you. It will determine how you look at this world.
 So, any fake god puts some glasses on you, and it becomes your world. This fake god creates the whole world for you. And another example, which is a big one, is the pope.
 Some people, they believed in pope, and pope became their god. He was just a Roman bishop, but for them he became the absolute leader in every sense.
 And that led to what? To changing god for pope. And they were split away from the true church, because you cannot serve two masters.
 So, pope, he became your god, and he told you, crusades, go and kill. You said, oh, we are Christians, we are not supposed to kill. I will take your sins, like Jesus Christ.
 He took the sins. But now, don't worry, maybe you don't know, but I know, because I am his representative, so I take your sins, I will be responsible for everything, so don't worry, just go and kill.
 So, he becomes your god. You trust him, he becomes your god. You don't need Christ, you don't need repentance, you don't need Holy Spirit.
 That's how this big schism happened. And this risk is still with us.
 So, in the past I had some movies about myths, narratives, fake perceptions. This is also just a different perspective.
 We need to beware of all those masks and different glasses that there are.
 Behind it is the same face. You can take different masks, but the same face. Face of the devil.
 Spiritual people must be aware and they must feel what is behind all of these things. Blessed is the man who doesn't walk into the council of ungodly.
 We don't go to the council of ungodly. If you have some company, say it's your relatives, and your relatives, they are not Orthodox, they are not even Christians, or they are nominal Christians, but they don't love God.
 They love themselves, they love this world, they love enjoyment, they love entertainment, they love shopping, this, this, this, nice, I don't know, tiramisu or something else.
 That is their lifestyle, that is their goal and priority. You go with them every day, slowly you will become like them.
 You can be Orthodox, you can be ultra-Orthodox, you can be whatever, but if you take on some worldview, some lifestyle of some people who don't have God in their life, you will worship the same God as they worship.
 And it will be fake God. And their worldview will become your worldview. So blessed is the man who doesn't go to the council of the ungodly.
 It's not only about those wicked and those bandits or something, no. It's about anyone who doesn't set God as the highest priority in his life.
 It could be some artists, they live only for some art. It could be seen as something innocent, but you make art, Western, Eastern, Chinese calligraphy, you make it your world, that will be your God.
 If you are attached a lot to that thing, it could be some hobby, it could be anything. You will make it your God, your idol.
 So this is why paganism overtook the whole world. And all those different religions that seem to be monotheists or paganists, it's all pagan.
 Because this is the same logic, idolatry. And you can take even communists and socialists, that's also idolatry. And capitalist democracy, they have its own idols.
 So let us know well that if we are not driven by the love of Christ, if we are not serious about spiritual life, we don't pray, we don't pursue Christ and his truth every day with zeal, we are sleeping into some kind of idol worshipping.
 Let us be aware of that. It's not just neutral, I just go, I'm free, I'm on my own, you won't be on your own.
 Especially with these gadgets, which give us all kinds of videos and all kinds of things, those to become our idols. May the Lord give us this zeal to search for him. May he help us avoid any delusion, any demon worshipping.
 May he give peace to our hearts. And may we become truly his witnesses, and not witnesses of our passions and our delusions. I mean, God bless your brothers and sisters.
 The same thing goes for politics. You become too much involved in politics, it becomes your call. God bless.
