 Dear brothers and sisters, we live in a very unstable world.
 The world went through many big wars in the past and epidemics.
 Well for the past few decades it was a little bit more stable, but now we are coming into
 this time of big turmoil, tempests, wars, epidemics, social change, this great reset
 which they are talking about.
 Something new and unexpected is unforeseeable, is coming.
 Many people massively die or go crazy.
 Both faithful and even people who don't believe in Christ, put more attention to the book
 of Revelation, Apocalypse.
 Even the word apocalypse becomes popular now, but the secular understanding that it's just
 something super bad and a zombie apocalypse or something like that.
 Well, let us talk a little bit about this book of Revelation, which is part of the Holy
 Scripture, to avoid some phobias, to avoid some secular misuse or some sect understanding.
 Because even within the church there is very often wrong understanding of this book.
 Today we are not going to go into scholarly discussion about different ways of interpreting
 it, and we won't go in detail into the content of this book today.
 But just the principles of approaching this book are important.
 So I will try to put it in a very basic and not straightforward way, in a way that even
 the child can understand.
 First of all, I want to bring up three wrong ways of understanding.
 There are more ways to understand it in a wrong way, but for us now the most important
 are three.
 One end of the spectrum is purely allegorical understanding, that it's talking about some
 truths, just some moral teachings, it's all allegorical, say, the beast is the evil and
 the evil has these characteristics, so it's not related to history.
 It will not happen, because many things that we see there are not particular.
 And even those which are particular, they can be understood allegorically.
 In the same way as there was a tradition in Alexandria of allegorical understanding
 of everything that is written in the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, but that tradition
 was not the orthodox tradition.
 The orthodox tradition came out to be closer to the Antiochian, but it was a mixture of
 two.
 Today let us not go too much into this scholarly discussion, today we want to identify what
 is wrong.
 So that purely allegorical, I'm not saying there are no allegories or it's called "anagogical",
 the one which brings you to some higher "anagago", "I go up", brings you to some higher meeting.
 There are, of course, but not only.
 On the other spectrum, which is very popular in the Orthodox Church, unfortunately, is
 a pure, literal historical understanding, that this is talking about something that
 will happen in the future, and that's it.
 So if the Antichrist is not here yet, we don't need to care about this book.
 When he comes, we will deal with that.
 But now let us just focus on the Gospel, on talking about just good things, like pleasant,
 but we don't really want to talk about those scary things which we read about in the Apocalypse
 to avoid some phobia, some schism.
 So that's another one, and of course I'm not saying that this will not happen.
 Of course there will be historical meaning of this.
 There is a historical meaning, yes, it is talking about things which will happen before
 the end, and after the end, as a matter of fact, of this world.
 The third understanding which I want to mention is the understanding which is very prevalent
 in the Protestant world, when people are trying to link the Apocalypse together with modern
 politics.
 This is similar to the Jews.
 In the Jewish tradition, they always do that.
 Every prophet, yes, now it's this Gog Magog, this is Gog, this is Magog, who is Lebanon,
 who is Iran, who is who, Nasrallah, he is here, and our Moshiach is coming, so already
 they were expecting more than 25 Messiahs during this past 2,000 years, and it never
 came.
 So it's all these fantasies.
 People are very proud, they want to be part of it, so they say, now this is happening
 right now.
 So this is similar, this Jewish mindset in these Protestant sects, which love to link
 this together.
 So after you read one of those books by those pastors, it's mind-blowing, you buy news,
 you read, what is China doing, what is Russia doing, where is Iran, what's going to happen
 tomorrow, you're crazy about this, you see that it's happening right now.
 This is not the spirit of the Holy Scripture, this is not the purpose of the book of Apocalypse.
 The book of Apocalypse is given to us as a consolation, because if Christians would not
 know what will happen eventually, they would not be prepared, well, it would be super difficult,
 they would be more scared, they would think the Lord left us, but this book is telling
 us, despite all those tribulations which are coming, the Lord knows about it, and the Lord
 will be with the saints until the very end, and the Kingdom of Antichrist is going to
 be short.
 I'll say about that in a minute.
 So Saint Nicholas of Serbia, a modern saint in the 20th century, he said that the beginning
 of the world is a good, it's something good, given by God, it's coming from God, so the
 end of the world is also something good.
 It's not tragedy, it's all over, it's a failure, the whole project is failure, God lost, things
 like that, all humanity went away, and the world is going nuts, it may seem so, but this
 is another big topic that today we won't go deep into.
 From the book of the Apocalypse, we need to draw this message, okay?
 Now, well, actually, I will mention the fourth wrong understanding that's very popular with
 the Bible scholars, rationalistic, who say that it's just about history.
 This is, well, some of them say that, okay, this is just John in his time, he saw those
 emperors Domitian, and he was describing them allegorically as a beast, as this and that,
 so it's just his secret message that he put into it to let the churches in Asia Minor
 know what he's thinking about, so just that.
 And again, I'm not saying it's not that, we can find that also in the book of the Apocalypse,
 but that's not the main, and it's actually not a very important layer of meaning.
 Okay, so what's the most relevant and most important meaning that we can draw from the
 book of the Apocalypse?
 First of all, let's think about, first of all, we need to overthrow that historic understanding,
 that it's only about the Antichrist who's going to come at some point, and okay, most
 likely we won't live so long, so just don't worry about that for now.
 Well, you see, the Gospel, let's take the Gospel.
 The Lord is healing the paralytic, he is healing the blind, okay, those stories, we read them
 in the church every Sunday.
 Is this just a historic narration?
 We just listen about what happened 2,000 years ago in Palestine, Jesus healed that man, okay,
 we know, okay, yes, he killed him, and that's it.
 And why is it important for us?
 That man is dead, okay, already 2,000 years ago, so that's historic understanding, purely
 historic.
 So, yes, we say that has happened, that thing is a fact, it has a historic meaning, but
 the more important meaning is what this means for us today.
 So we draw a lot of teaching, we draw a teaching about our heart, our soul, okay, that is paralyzed,
 that we need a healing from Christ, and many other things, how to change our life today,
 what to be ready for, okay, so that's one example.
 Another example is the book of Genesis, okay, we read many stories, there was the snake
 which came and seduced Eve to eat that fruit, so is this just historic, or is this just
 allegorical?
 Yeah, some people will say it's just allegorical, there was no, like, really, no Adam, no snake,
 it's just allegories about how sin comes and stuff like that, that's allegorical, purely
 allegorical understanding.
 Another understanding is that, okay, it's just historical, not many people will say
 that, okay, but if you go historical, only historical, that's where you arrive at.
 Okay, yes, there was one woman long time ago, and there was a snake which came and she ate
 that apple, not apple, sorry, fruit, we don't know if it was an apple, most likely not,
 so what, okay, but no, for us, the most important meaning is that this is teaching us how the
 sin comes into our life, and how it's developing, how the devil is seducing us step by step,
 how to fight against it, okay, what happens with the human soul when it commits some sin
 and turns away from the Lord's commandment into disobedience, okay, and many, many other
 things, spiritual, moral, okay, we can draw teachings, regarding the whole church, okay,
 so this is something more important, despite the fact that, yes, it has historical meaning,
 yes, it has allegorical meaning, yes, because it's a snake, so we can understand what does
 it symbolize, what can it tell us about evil, the nature of evil, so there is symbolism
 in the images, that it was a snake, okay, so yes, there is also allegorical meaning,
 but that also is not the only meaning, so now we go back to Revelation, okay, the Revelation
 tells us what will happen at the end and after the end, the retribution, both of the devil
 and of the saints and of Antichrist and all the sinners who will follow Antichrist, okay,
 however it is telling a lot to us today, not only about the preparation, how do we prepare
 for those end of times, but it's actually telling us how is this mystery of lawlessness
 is uncovering itself, is manifesting itself in our time, in our soul, every one of us
 and what can we do about it, I have videos on Antichrist and on the mystery of lawlessness,
 you can go back and look, so this is what is important, today I won't go into detail,
 I'll just bring a couple of examples, one example is the mistake which is common within
 the church, is to understand literally that Antichrist is going to rule three and a half
 years, because that's what it says in the book of Revelation, well, if we take, this
 is literal understanding, if we take the book of Revelation, it's all about numbers, okay,
 you see symbolism in all the numbers, in number one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, every
 number has its own symbolism and actually has several meanings, and it could be any
 of them, or all of them, and some images, for example, the beast coming from the abyss
 or coming from the sea, so do we take it literally, is it going to be like a beast going out and
 say I am the apocalyptic beast, or this harlot of Babylon sitting on the beast, do you think
 there will be harlot, we say I am the harlot of Babylon, hello, I came, and she has Babylon
 and 666 written on her forehead, and she says yes, hello, I am harlot of Babylon, of course
 not, it's all symbolic, however these symbols appoint to some particular thing, it's not
 just about some allegorical things, it has, it's pointing about something which is going
 to happen on the spiritual and physical level, okay, in our world.
 So what about three and a half years, okay, it's half of seven, seven has one of the meanings
 of seven is the completeness, fullness, seven days of creation, seven gifts of the Holy
 Spirit, and many others, okay, seven spirits, seven sacraments in the church, number seven
 has this completeness meaning to it, completeness meaning also it's indefinite in time, so half
 of it means limited, so the time of his rule will be limited, it doesn't have to be three
 and a half years, okay, because if it's not three and a half years people will say well
 the prophecy is wrong, so he is not antichrist, he's ruling already 10 years now, so it's
 not antichrist, and the true meaning is to give consolation to the church that it knows
 that when those days will come it will be limited, because the rule, the order of antichrist
 will seem to be forever, okay, but the church will know that it's not forever, that it's
 limited, and this is a great consolation, we have to have patience and endure all the sufferings
 associated with this to the glory of God.
 Well another example is that mark of the beast, okay, it's not a stamp, it's not a seal, it's
 a mark, there is a seal of the Holy Spirit, okay, so we distinguish seal and mark, and
 the mark of the beast will be on the right hand and the forehand, and without it you
 cannot buy and sell.
 Well it seems quite particular, it seems to be that at some point, yes, there will be
 something like that, something like a QR code that you have, but for example if we would
 have this sickness that was a few years ago, if it would be continuous until now, then
 by now everybody would have a QR code and you would not be able to go shopping, to travel,
 to do anything without it.
 So it's very similar to what's described in the apocalypse, however you don't need to
 reject Christ if you have it, you just get used to using some kind of media for your
 daily life, you get a sanction to get permission to do anything, to go outside, to meet with
 people, etc. but we have another example, for example in the communist party, if you
 want to become a member in the Soviet times, you have to be atheist, you have to say "I
 am atheist", of course by saying that you reject Christ if you used to be a Christian.
 So to become part of the system you need to reject Christ, so this is a clear example.
 So what is written in the apocalypse is coming to its manifestation, and that was much earlier
 than the coming of Antichrist, so we can see that many things which are described in Revelation
 are relevant today, including the harlot of Babylon, including the beast and many many
 other things, we can see them, we can see Leviathan, if we have spiritual life we will
 see where is Christ and where is Antichrist, see it more clearly day by day, without any
 phobia, with peace in heart and with trust in the Lord.
 So these are some things which I wanted to share today about how do we approach the book
 of Revelation, we ask the Lord for wisdom, for soberness, for eagerness in serving Him,
 in adjusting our spiritual life, I don't recommend people who are not yet stable in their prayer,
 spiritual life, Eucharist, church life, let's put it that way, to read the apocalypse, you
 might go crazy, or read it together with the explanation of the Holy Fathers, don't just
 read it by itself, you'll be drawn away, you'll fall into some fear, some fantasies, but if
 you have a stable life, by all means, you can read it, don't just read apocalypse that
 also is sick, the first thing is to read the gospel, to live by the gospel, to preach the
 gospel, but other books of the Bible are also important, so we can do some research, there
 are courses on apocalypse, you can learn more about different approaches, but I would recommend
 not get lost in the many small details and academic arguments which might block the big
 picture for you, if you go too deep in scholastic works on that subject, the first thing if
 you want to know what's going on there, read the Holy Fathers, that's the first basis,
 then you will know basically what it's all about, may the Lord give us strength and blessing
 and may He preserve us from every evil and from all that apostasy which we read about
 in the apocalypse, so that we may be victorious and our life may be pleasing to the Lord.
 Lord bless, brothers and sisters.
