 Dear brothers and sisters, last time I've spoke about idolatry and what shape and form
 does it take in our days, especially in those countries which are not pagan, which used
 to be Christian or maybe atheist or something else.
 All kinds of idolatry.
 I should have emphasized that the most common idolatry that we have is the family, that
 our relatives become idols and we become idols for them.
 It takes shape of love, but very often it's very selfish and we can experience what this
 love truly is when it encounters the Christian message, the truth.
 And very often it becomes very hostile and I know instances when a mother, she would
 be cursing her daughter for willing to become a nun and even said that "I'd rather have
 you become a prostitute, a harlot, rather than go to the monastery".
 You can see what is the madness.
 What love are you talking about?
 This is love for yourself.
 You believe that this is your possession and it's supposed to be the way you want it to
 be.
 There can be all kinds of idol worshipping in our modern days and we should see that
 we ourselves are idol worshippers, even if it sounds really bizarre to you.
 This is the starting point.
 If we want to get out of this self-deception that we're in, this is something that we need
 to recognize and realize.
 And today I want to say about why this is going on and what this world looks like in
 the reality.
 There are three usual mindsets that we see in this world.
 The first one is the consumer mindset.
 It would be something like this.
 The world is complicated, but I don't care.
 I care about my salary, simple pleasures that I can buy with it, and that's it.
 This is my world and I don't care about anything else.
 This is a very simple consumerist slave mindset.
 Mass, mass culture, mass people, not mass society.
 Another similar to it is the one that would say, well, I want to know what happens in
 this world.
 And basically I know it's not that difficult because I watch some analysts and bloggers
 and news, BBC, CNN, or something else, and they tell me what's going on.
 And it's like that.
 I know Iran has that nuclear program.
 I know this, this is, it's not that difficult.
 It's not complicated.
 I know what's going on in this world and basically I don't really care too much because I care
 mainly about also my savings, my salary, and my purchases, my enjoyment, my little paradise
 that I create, well, quote paradise, because sometimes it's a hell, but this is what I
 care about.
 I don't care about anything else really.
 Well, maybe I care, but because the TV says that I should care about who wins in the United
 States elections and other stuff.
 And the third mindset is more of a intellectualist and like real agnostic, all three are agnostic.
 But the real agnostic is the one who would say, I am the smartest.
 I have education, I have intellectual ability, okay.
 And I'm the smartest and I know everything.
 I know I can analyze who is saying this, he's saying that, but I'm smarter.
 I can read between the lines and I understand everything better than anyone else.
 And I'm fine.
 Basically I don't need to repent much.
 So this is agnostic, this elite kind of thing called elite, this is not real elite.
 This is pseudo elite, but this is mindset of most people who have some positions, some
 influence who are basically not just a mass population.
 Even though they are also like slaves of some paradigm, they are blinded completely and
 they would have even more idols because they would have say idol of freedom, idol of human
 rights, idol of financial stability, they would have all kinds of idols.
 They would be big time idol worshipers, but they would think that they're enlightened.
 I have the video on enlightenment, you could see.
 And of course some of these mindset they would project on the rest of population and many
 smaller people they would also think similarly.
 Because all three are agnostic, all three don't have repentance, this is in common.
 They all three don't have repentance.
 Of course I'm making things simple, it's more complicated, but I'm generalizing here.
 Then let's say we want to get away from this.
 The first step would be to at least acknowledge that I don't know everything, it's much more
 complicated than it seems to be, the world.
 Maybe there is some conspiracy, maybe there is this and that.
 I don't really know, but I want to know.
 I want to know.
 I try to search, I try to discover, I don't believe everything that I hear.
 This is first step, but this step is still self-reliant.
 The person would think that he himself can get out of deceptions and etc. that prevail
 in this world, think outside the box and he can find answers.
 It has this basic humbleness that the person can acknowledge that he is not omnipotent
 and he doesn't know everything, and also he has this good characteristic of searching,
 of not just "Oh, let it be, I don't care".
 These things, hopefully they will help him to come to another stage, which is the Christian
 attitude towards this world.
 And the stage would be "I am a sinner, I cannot do it myself, I do want to understand what
 the world is".
 This is normal, this is natural for people to be willing to understand what this world
 is all about, because this world is created for man to be masters of this world.
 That's how it's designed by God.
 Originally, the man is created for this purpose, so it's normal for a man now to become those
 ignorant people who don't want to know.
 This is perversion, but the natural, normal way of looking at this world is that "I do
 want to know what's going on and what it's all about, and I want to see my place in this
 world, my mission in this world, and of course I need to understand that myself I need salvation
 and I need to be with God to be able to understand and accomplish this mission".
 So this humbleness, repentance, is something that is always with me.
 So this is what we are seeking, this mindset.
 Just a little thought I wanted to share with you.
 Just recently I've been in a big church with many people, children in this church, and
 I could see that there is a big question mark in the eyes of these children.
 They are facing the world that they don't understand.
 They are afraid of this world.
 They are not afraid of the church, but neither their parents nor the priest are able to answer
 all the questions they have, and maybe they don't even know what to ask.
 They are looking at the altar, they are looking at the saints, they are expecting help.
 It is our responsibility to warn them of all the dangers that exist in this world.
 As adults we already have experienced a lot of the evil that is out there in this world.
 Very often we have wounds and we've fallen into traps that exist, but they have not,
 and they will fall into those traps and maybe even worse if we don't warn them.
 And the problem is that we ourselves with this gnostic mindset, we cannot give them
 the true picture of this world.
 We cannot warn them of everything.
 We cannot guard them anyhow, it's only God who can guard them, but we can play a great
 role in helping them to avoid those things.
 But to do that we first need to do a big revision of our own character and our understanding
 of this world.
 So this is what my video this time is all about.
 Where to begin from?
 The first thing to begin from is to understand, to acknowledge that the worldview that I have
 is wrong, that the character that I have is wrong, by wrong I mean that these things are
 formed in the world of Cain or Leviathan, if you will, this world of people who've rejected
 God.
 They're not just sinners, it's not just the spirit of sin, it's the spirit of Cain who
 doesn't want God's healing and God's mercy, who becomes enemy of God.
 And in future I will say more about Cain, this path to destruction, to Avaddon, to the
 abyss, to Gehenna, if you want, this path of the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.
 And we've lived in this world for almost all our life.
 And then we've repented and we've decided to become Christians and to strive for the
 heavens and holy life, but it is our mind, our nous, in Greek it's called nous, it's
 not my English mind, it's our nous, sometimes called spirit, that has discovered, has seen
 God's grace and mercy and told us that this is the goal, this is the direction, but everything
 else that we have, our memories, our values, our ways of logic, okay, many, many things
 that we have, our emotions, feelings, it's all still in that old paradigm that was created,
 formed during our life in the Cain world.
 And now we need to be driven by the Spirit in order to break all those shackles that
 we have.
 And very often people don't do that and they think that now, okay, I became Christian,
 I go to church, so everything's supposed to be better, I'm supposed to be one of those
 saints, but we discover that we're not, and we fail all the time, and every confession
 we confess the same thing, and it's becoming even worse, and we don't understand why.
 Then we say, okay, maybe it's not for me, it's for those saints, but I cannot do it.
 And people give up and people are dragged back to the life in the hell, in apostasy.
 So what do we do to avoid that?
 Let me give you an example, a metaphor, not a metaphor, okay, analogy.
 We live in the city, okay, in this modern civilization.
 We're used to comfort, to the way it's run, to transport, to air conditioning, to that
 full refrigerator of stuff, choice of products in the supermarket, we're used to this.
 But then when we become Christians and we think deeply about why, what is this paradigm, this
 union of people without God, they don't need religion to be united in this Babylon of mutual
 benefit and efficiency and all kinds of ways of avoiding God, to find pleasures in everything
 without pleasure in God, to find the resources, insurance, this and that, stability, finance,
 savings, everything they find, they don't need God for stability.
 It's directed in its core value and logic to make you live in apostasy.
 You understand this as a Christian, but are you ready to cut with this civilization and
 go and live by yourself, maybe in some cave in a desert praying all day and night, or
 maybe you're ready to go to Africa and serve some sick people there without air conditioning,
 without a refrigerator, without a toilet, a shower, without anything.
 But this is, you will do something pleasing to the God, okay?
 Something which is pleasing to Him and you will become much closer to Him if you do that.
 Are you ready?
 Most of us, we're not.
 We stay in the city and slowly we are reprogrammed back, well, actually we're dragged back to
 the way of thinking in the same way as our relatives who are all idol worshipers, usually,
 and we also become idol worshipers and we have our thinking that now I'm Christian,
 but I'm an idol worshiper.
 Okay, so this is in the core what we are calling worldliness.
 So what do we do?
 I don't say that all of you should go to the desert right now because myself, I'm not in
 the desert as you see.
 And first thing is to acknowledge that my worldview is wrong, is kainite, is Leviathan.
 And my character that I have is also a product of Leviathan and kain.
 And I need to work on this, on breaking this shackles every day to gain complete autonomy
 from everything that is making me relaxed, apostatic, all these things which I've listed.
 Not being reliant on, I don't know, YouTube or other stuff that like everybody is listening,
 so I'm also listening, not trusting too much the news and spending too much time in all
 kinds of chats and stuff like that.
 No, our heart should be in the kingdom of heaven already now, still here.
 We're still here, but our heart is there.
 How do we do that?
 Without eskittism, without hesychasm, the prayer of the heart and active life in church,
 especially sacraments, the holy confession, the holy Eucharist, without this, we will
 not be able to avoid this worldliness and this blindness, thinking that we are Christians,
 not being maybe kyanites, idol-worshippers, and even sons of the devil, as those Jews
 became in the times of Christ.
 So today this is what I wanted to say regarding how do we do that.
 I will say many other things in my future videos, but the first step is to understand
 what's going on with me, with this world, what is this spirit of Cain, what is this
 modern idolatry that we have everywhere, within, without, to try to break these glasses that
 Cain gave us and we have it already stuck to our face.
 Let us see this problem, let us have this deep repentance, always acknowledging that
 we are still lacking, that we are still far from Christ, and we need to change, to break
 these shackles every day in order for Christ, for the seed of the Word of God to grow, to
 bring fruit, to bring us to holiness, to become His witnesses, to have this love coming from
 Him transforming us day by day.
 May the Lord's grace and wisdom and strength be with every one of you and make us victorious
 and help us break all those shackles that are still enslaving us from every side.
 May the Lord help us and give us peace and blessing.
 Amen.
