 Dear brothers and sisters, in my previous two videos I've mentioned how difficult it is to be saved in this Babylon, in this world, with the spirit of Cain both in us and in this world.
 And having realized this problem, this difficulty, maybe having broken these glasses, or at least taken off for a second, we can now think deeper about what can we do to be saved in this world.
 Today I want to share with you a few things that I hope that everyone can practice so that we can, in this world, be on a firm path to salvation.
 It is a heresy to say that salvation is impossible in this world. You have to go to a monastery, to a desert, to a forest, because indeed it's easier to reach salvation, to seek for God.
 If you are in a monastic environment, in a healthy monastic environment, somewhere away from this world, in a desert, say, your whole life from morning till night is all about spiritual life and you don't have so many temptations from all around you.
 You have only, not only, but mostly examples of Christian dedication, prayer in those other monks and or nuns who are surrounding you in this place.
 But here, in this world, what can we do? Well, we need to be double vigilant, two times more vigilant than we would be in the forest, say.
 And this vigilance comes with what? If everything works against vigilance, how do we become vigilant?
 I want to give some advice or maybe just share my observations regarding three types of people faithful.
 Now I'm talking about faithful who are already disciples of Christ, Orthodox. Primarily I'm talking about Orthodox now.
 If you're not yet Orthodox, please consider deeply put it in your prayer of whether to become Orthodox or not. Just put it in your prayer, daily prayer.
 So today I want to first, before I go into these three types of people, I want to say that all three types would need four things, four things to be on this path of salvation.
 The first thing is the church life, including Holy Eucharist, confession, participating in Divine Liturgy, trying to grasp as much as you can from the Liturgy,
 including the Word, the Word of God, the Spirit of Prayer and everything that pertains to this way of salvation, this plan of salvation that is uncovered in front of us within the Divine Liturgy.
 In the common prayer, being in union with the church community, this is one thing.
 Another thing is personal spiritual life. It must be very, it must be in the center of your life.
 What do I mean by spiritual life? Mainly the prayer of the heart, the fighting with passions, which is through fasting.
 Fasting not being just food restrictions. It would be learning to overcome all kinds of passions, all kinds of thoughts, to clean our heart from all garbage.
 So this is the spiritual life, reading the Word of God, the Holy Fathers, putting the spiritual life into making it cornerstone of your daily life.
 And then two regarding the fruits of external ministry that we do. First would be ministry to people, to poor, to needy, not only to my family, which is also super important, but it risks becoming an idol worshipping.
 It's like bigger me. In my family it's bigger me, and outside it's everything foreign, it's just a hassle, a problem, but within my family this is my fortress, and this is the only thing I care about.
 This is egoism and idol worshipping also. This is clan mindset, which is common in the pagan world, so it doesn't make you a Christian.
 If you care only about your family. And also the mission. The mission, every one of us, as soon as we clean away all the garbage from our soul through confession, through intensive spiritual life, through these daily tortures that we're going through,
 we need to become witnesses of the love and Word of God and share it with people around us, carrying the love of Christ in our hearts.
 So these four elements should become part of our life, no matter what kind of person you are.
 Now talking about different types of people, we can distinguish, okay, this is very general, but just for reference, I could say successful people.
 Successful people are few. What do I mean by successful? You have your work, salary is stable, family life is stable more or less,
 you have health, everything is going not too bad, okay?
 In this situation, this is glory to God. I mean, if you are in this situation, most people are not.
 But if you are, glory to God, but it brings great risks of which we need to be aware of,
 and we need to be aware of how to use the situation to the glory of God and to the benefit of our spiritual life and gaining salvation.
 Well, first of all, we need to remember, love God with all your strength.
 Remember this Shema Yisrael, we are new Israel, here your God is the only God, and to love your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength.
 With all your strength, what does this mean? With all your resources, whatever resources you have, all your possessions, all your physical strength,
 all your knowledge that you have, skills, all your time, all your energy, everything, put it to the ministry of God,
 not for yourself, not for pleasures, not for comfort, no, put all of that to glorify God, as Apostle Paul says,
 glorify Him in everything that you do. So, this is something to remember always, and to such people
 the main task would be to ministry to your neighbors, to the poor, to the weak, to the needy,
 this ministry, this is what the Lord is expecting from you, that's why He gave you health, income, and
 all these things. And the greatest risk here is this corrupting influence of your abilities,
 especially financial abilities. You can buy this, you can buy that, you can select different
 types of, I don't know, vacations, products, anything. This corrupts human soul, this comes from Babylon.
 Babylon was about this choice, this creating the town which gives you different kinds of products
 and varieties, and basically through this you have a great choice of stuff, and this diverts your
 attention away from the will of God to, okay, where do I, what do I buy, what do I spend, okay, how do I
 use my free time, and stuff like that. So this is the corrupting influence of Babylon
 which you have through this access of resources that is in your possession. And of course we need
 to remember that all that we possess belong to God, it's just entrusted to me, and the Lord is watching
 how am I gonna use it. So this can bring to this spiritual slothfulness, which is so common now
 in the developed countries, in the rich families, well not rich, but economically well-established
 families, especially children, they don't care about anything. This is what everybody is dreaming
 about when they are retired, I have all my free time, I can do this, I can do that, this is
 slothfulness, this is apostasy, okay, this is ministry to Avadon. You are in the world of Avadon
 already still alive, but already you perish because you're alienated from God, you created your own
 paradise, you just enjoy your life, but this enjoyment is instead of enjoying the kingdom of heaven
 that he would give you. So this is the greatest risk and most people fall into it. And in the
 church they are trying just to find some consolation that, okay, it's okay, it's okay, I'm living like
 this, but I deserve it, okay, so just put a candle, okay, God, this is for you and my life is nice,
 okay, I just continue this mamanistic life. So this is a great danger.
 The second type of people who are the majority of Christians is the poor people, okay, by
 poor I mean that they are always struggling about financial situation, even if they possess some
 stuff, okay, they have a mortgage, they have this, they have that, they have all kinds of bills and
 they are distressed by all these hardships of life, mainly coming from economic, maybe also family
 problems, maybe also some other issues, health, etc. Most often these issues, problems, they come
 from our own stupidity, okay, we did not need such a big house and take this big mortgage, we didn't
 need it, we don't need all these bathrooms and living rooms and everything else in our house,
 this is all waste and we are distressed because we possess all that. This is just an example,
 okay, it could be anything, how the way we spend our earnings and maybe because we don't want to
 study and then we don't find a good job, this is also our usually our stability or laziness or
 something like that, but not always, okay, some people they are eager to do things but they are
 just don't have talents or they have a situation that is difficult, okay, life situation which is
 difficult, family situation, not because of their mistakes, mainly because this is evil, this is
 evil world out there and the devil is trying to harm especially Christians, so quite often these
 sorrows come from the world and no matter where they're coming from, first of course they have to
 bring about repentance, especially if these come from the problems, from our own stupidity
 and we need to remember that such situation can give us a special blessing of the Lord.
 In Hezekiah chapter 9 verse 2 we read that God, verse 2 and 3, that God will give a special
 mark, a seal to his people distressed and in pain and we read in the apocalypse chapter 7
 verse 2 also that the Lord, the angels will be giving special mark, this is a mark of cross
 and this is why the people of God are very often portrayed as the poor who are oppressed,
 blessed are you who are chosen because of the righteousness sake and oppressed,
 okay, so there is going to be always some oppression and enmity of this world of devil
 against Christians, so we need to be ready, take up your cross, okay, this is all about cross,
 so we need, majority of us, okay, we need to be strong in this oppression, remember the words of
 the soul, many are the sorrows of the righteousness but the Lord is going to save them, rescue them
 from them all, such people sometimes ask me how do I pray, I mean I have small children, they are
 waking up before me and I don't have time for even morning prayer, I'm always suppressed by all these
 hardships and the toils that fall onto my head, what do I do, what spiritual life, what are you
 talking about, father, holy fathers, spiritual life, what are you talking about, quietness,
 I don't have any quietness in my life, what do I do, okay, I need to say that your prayer may be
 the much more powerful than prayer of many monks in the monasteries, if you learn how to pray
 within, from within these tortures and hardships that fall upon you, while you work, while you are
 distressed, no matter what it is, a family issue or something else, you pray from the depth of your
 heart, cry out to the Lord, Lord have mercy, Lord save me, rescue me, forgive me my sins,
 bless the people around me, okay, we have, we can be very short, very small prayers but they are
 coming out from the depth of our heart and whenever we seize a moment we use the Jesus prayer,
 Lord Jesus Christ, son of God, have mercy on me, okay, we become true prayers if we are distressed
 and we step on this firm life in Christ, for Christ, we find refuge, we find support in the Lord,
 in the book of Job, we read that those who are oppressed, they will be crying like those, you know,
 babies of Kral, Kral has small babies who are crying there because they're hungry,
 they're screaming out and that scream will be heard by God and this is talking not about Kral,
 this is talking about the true Christians, their prayer should be not, okay, Lord have mercy 40
 times, Lord have mercy, Lord have mercy, Lord have mercy, boom, okay, finished, you should be coming
 from your heart directly to the Lord, screaming out, Lord hear my voice, I have cried from the
 depth of my sins, from this darkness of Hades, I have cried out to thee, that kind of prayer will
 be heard and only that kind of prayer for that matter, anything else is a waste of time, just,
 you're just wasting your time, if you don't have this in mind, of course, maybe you cannot just
 make your prayer immediately so powerful, but at least we have this goal, at least we don't stop
 at those formal, okay, finish reading, okay, finish, this is for you, now I go watch tv, so
 please never say I don't have time for prayer, okay, the last type of people, very rare,
 but this is the time people who are like, they are usually introverts, this
 type of seers, okay, who are observing, observing nature, who are maybe researchers,
 maybe painters, okay, or people who like love to read books for many hours,
 be in solitude somewhere, these are very few, okay, and usually they also waste their time,
 they're wasting time spending hours painting or reading some, I don't know, Anna Karenina or
 I don't know Shakespeare or something else, read the Holy Fathers, go to the forest not to
 paint, to pray, to observe, to see this beauty of this world, birds, you will meet God, not just be
 happy to bring home something, okay, these people are very few, if you know your children or someone
 in your community like that, tell them to not to waste their time, to spend it for spiritual life,
 mainly, mainly spiritual life, instead of researching, I don't know, history of,
 I don't know, ancient Greece, maybe you research the
 Philokalia, lives of saints, saints of Holy Fathers, okay, and of course very, very often
 such people eventually they would go to a monastery or become priests, but not always,
 and what spoils all three times and like 90% of Christians is using their gadgets every day just
 wasting time and okay diving into this apostatic, this Avadon, okay, because just wasting time,
 videos, some humor, some, okay, I don't know, analytics about everything, maybe
