 Dear brothers and sisters, to the Christians of the early church it was evident that the
 Christians are the life of the world, like soul to the body gives life.
 The true Christians are that source of life and meaning and light that gives meaning and
 purpose to this world.
 And everything outside of this is like body without soul, it's just a corpse, it's just
 decomposing, it's incapable of any fruits, it has no taste, it has only this taste of
 death and filthiness.
 And this was so evident to the spiritual people that there was no doubt that it is the crucifixion
 and it is the life in Christ and for Christ that restores man not only to the perfect
 state which he was in at the time of Adam before fall but also gives him the grace of
 being the child of God united with God because Christ himself is both God and man and by
 us uniting mysteriously with Christ we mysteriously unite with God himself and this gives us the
 source of true life which is in God and true wisdom and true love.
 Unfortunately now this is not so evident because not that many people have serious spiritual
 life, let's put it this way, okay?
 By just being baptized and formally belonging to some church, some organization, it doesn't
 make you automatically child of the kingdom of heaven and God-bearer, someone who bears
 God in your heart.
 So today I want to say a few words about what's going on both outside the church with those
 heretic groups like Catholicism, Protestantism and also within the church we also have this
 problem and we need to know about these risks and within each and every Christian, Orthodox
 Christian, this also is happening and to put it in a straightforward context, let's go
 back to how it was named by the early Christians.
 There is the Epistle of Diognetus, you can read about that and we read in the epistles
 of Apostle Paul that the whole world is either pagans or Greeks, how they call it, but it's
 not a nation at the time, it's all the pagans, they call this Elenas, this pagan world.
 And there are the Jews and when Apostle Paul talks about Jews, mainly he talks about those
 who didn't accept Christ or he would say that when either you're a pagan or a Jew, you become
 member of the church, you are no longer Jew or pagan.
 And we read it in the epistle of Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 22-23 "For the Jews require
 a sign and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified unto the Jews a
 stumble block and unto the Greeks madness."
 So, what makes us different from just Jews or from the Greeks or the pagans is crucified
 Christ and the cross means the crucifixion of Christ, so it's not enough just to put
 the cross on your wall or to hang it on your chest, it's not enough.
 And we see that the heretic understanding of the cross is fundamentally different from
 the true and orthodox understanding of the cross.
 But this is not the topic today, this is another topic, but just pay attention to that.
 The difference is not in the shape of the cross or whether it has Jesus on it or it
 doesn't have Jesus or his feet are like this or like this, that's not the difference.
 The difference is the meaning of cross, not just theological but also the spiritual.
 What does it mean for the Christian?
 Because this is where this source of life and salvation is, which we see is lacking
 both in Catholic and Protestant groups.
 But let's go one by one.
 Also about that division of the world to Greeks and Jews, let's just briefly look at Colossians
 3.11, which says "In Christ there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision,
 barbarian, Scythian, bond or free, but Christ is all and in all".
 Okay, so the main split is still pre-Pegate, Greek and the Jews.
 Very often, even in the Orthodox Church, people come to the Church, they see the nice iconostasis,
 they see all this beauty of the Church, they see the wonderful chants, they see the vestments,
 the Divine Liturgy, and some people don't really understand what is this all about.
 And they just stick to that superficial picture that they see.
 They don't get the depth.
 And where is the depth?
 All of that is pointing in one direction, it's pointing to the cross, it's pointing
 to the love of Christ who was crucified and willingness to be crucified, also in the same
 way to also walk up to Golgotha, bearing our own cross, with joy and gladness, and following
 our Master.
 And this is what all of this is all about.
 And the problem is that the fallen man, this old me, or this mammon, if you will, or this
 beast, if you will, that is in every one of us, this spirit of Cain, call it whatever,
 doesn't want to be crucified, it doesn't want cross, it wants to feel at peace without rejecting
 the world.
 And this is what he finds in the Protestant and Catholic environment.
 You can be proud, mammonist, jealous, selfish, but still have that tranquility, "Oh, but
 I am a Christian, the Lord is either guaranteed because I am Catholic and the Pope takes care
 of everything, or it is just given to automatically, because you are justified already, hallelujah,
 praise the Lord."
 Okay, so this is this deceit that crept into former Christians, former Christian Church,
 and it fell off into heresy, and it lost the true life and light and salvation and understanding
 of the cross.
 It lost all the sacraments, it lost Christ, okay, there is no Christ there, people speak
 about him all the day, but there is no Christ, they call someone else by the name Christ.
 But this is another topic.
 Today I want to say about this paganism and Judaism, okay, Judaic heresy that is creeping
 into Christianity, if you will, or we are falling off into either of these things, okay.
 As soon as we lose this bond which is uniting us with Christ, we will sleep into either
 of these things, okay.
 And what are these things, these two alternatives, okay.
 If you don't choose Christ as he is crucified, then you will be sleeping either into paganism.
 Okay, what happens if you sleep into paganism, I'm not talking about idolatry, that you're
 gonna go and worship idols, mazu or something else, but you will get into all kinds of occultism
 with the infant church, you will believe in some magic and this and that, you'll be obsessed
 about all kinds of visions and all kinds of healings, supernatural powers, and all kinds
 of stuff like that, protection that you have some stuff and it will protect you in some
 mystical way, or you read some prayers so many times and you create a wall of protection,
 all that pagan superstitions.
 Also you may slip into liberalism and ecumenism, which is another form of paganism, it's the
 spiritual idolatry, that everything is fine, everybody is good, every sect, Hinduism has
 its own good things and everywhere you can find God and everybody is saved in his own
 way, and you have all those religions of Abraham, all good friends, yes, yes, yes, we all support
 the green agenda and all that stuff, syncretism.
 You might slip into loving all kinds of activities, active, we do something, we build something
 here, we do a picnic, we have musical band, we have this, we have that, all this entertainment,
 we will be going after all kinds of so-called Christian entertainment, church entertainment.
 This is also what the pagans like.
 Or you might be into some philosophical scholarship things, reading many many books and thinking
 that there is the everything, without the living connection with Christ, you'll be into
 some deep theories, you'll be researching Heidegger and this and that, how he influenced
 this and that, and many other things.
 Some people they slip into all those fantasies, like these catholic movements of Francis Assisi
 with all this imagination, or Loyola, or these meditations and all kinds of stuff.
 Or you may go into charismatic thing, or into some other thing, healings, stuff like that.
 Those will be pagan things, and you will think that you are Christian.
 Another thing that you can choose is Judaism.
 Of course you'll be calling yourself Christian, but you'll be a Judas, and what do I mean
 by that? well, it's usually formalism, legalism, obsession about rituals, formality, has to
 be done like this, or this bureaucracy, it's either vertical bureaucracy, like in the catholic
 church, this hierarchical, or it will be more like Constitution-like, voting, all these
 things, rights, your rights, my rights, quorums, caucuses, this Protestant thing.
 But it will be completely human, worldly, it has nothing to do with Christ, with His
 love, with the Holy Spirit.
 So you will find all kinds of alienation, alienation between people with no love, everybody
 just individualized, I am some individual with my rights, with my privileges, I have
 some direct contact with God, and this is how I am being saved in this structure.
 It may be alienation from God, you don't really believe in God.
 You can be like Sadducee, they think they are religious, but they are materialists.
 You have a materialistic life, you believe in money, in power, this is why they are always
 very political, because they seek power, both the Catholics with the Jews, Jesuits, and
 also the Protestants, Protestantism is just a child of Catholicism, so both of them, Protestantism
 is more like pagan, but with Judaism, Catholicism is more Judaism, but also with paganism, it's
 all intermixed actually, so this is all relative, but this is all worthiness, it's all about
 human things, that's why they love psychology, they try to solve problems psychologically,
 because they don't trust God, this is alienation from God.
 So only in Christ we can find true life, only by being crucified, by rejecting our own self,
 by breaking our own world, by seeking the kingdom of God, putting it above everything
 else, we can become children of heavens, and as soon as we lose this, we will be slipping
 into some kind of either paganism or Judaism, or both.
 And what we don't want is to have a nice church, everything nicely decorated, everything
 going smoothly by the schedule, good discipline, everybody dressed properly, everybody coming
 on time, everything is fine, but there is no love.
 This is what Christ has called, you are like those well painted tombs, inside there is
 all kinds of filthiness, but from outside it looks like beautiful and nice.
 And that's what the Jews ended up slipping into.
 So may the Lord keep us away from this, may He give us the true love, teach us spiritual
 life, self-sacrifice, taking our cross and following Him, doing this testimony of His
 love towards everyone in our life, and the blessing of the Lord will be with us.
 Amen.
 God bless, brothers and sisters.
