 Dear brothers and sisters, we live in the world full of lies and many people are trying
 to use people's love towards their homeland to send them to war or to make them support
 some side of conflict and it is very important for us Christians to have a stand on the issue
 of patriotism or conscription. If, say, our country goes to war, do we need to support
 it or if our country is being invaded by someone, do we need to go fight for it or if some other
 country goes to war, do we stand on some side, etc. All these questions, they can be answered
 if we have a well-grounded position on what is patriotism in view of Christian faith.
 But the question is not as easy as it seems. Well, it's quite straightforward but it's
 very difficult to answer because even saints had different opinions on that. So, whatever
 I'm going to say today, it's not the official teaching of the church, okay, but this is
 something that the early church have felt and have experienced and something that was
 brought directly from the understanding of the cross, of the sacrifice that the Lord
 has made for us in order to save us. So, myself, I'm convinced that this view is the Christian
 view. What is this view? Well, first of all, let me introduce some conflicting views. The
 two most popular views, one is patriotism, support patriotism. What is patriotism? It's
 love for your country, for your nation, for its history, for everything related to it
 that is the best. And also, you respect others. It's not fascism, it's not narcissism. When
 you think others are inferior, you are the chosen, you are the best. But for you yourself,
 your country is the best country. No matter where you go, where you live, maybe you live
 in somewhere else, but the country you're from is your country and your patriotic, okay,
 you love your country. And another extension of this view is whether you should be ready
 to go to war for your country, in the interest of your country. If you are conscripted or
 something is threatening your country, should you go to war, which is more than just patriotism.
 So these are, you know, two quite similar views. And I will tell you right away that
 some saints, indeed, they support patriotism. And very few support this idea of going to
 war if needed. And we can find biblical support for both of these views. Of course, everything
 is taken out of context, but basically you can find verses. I'm not going to go through
 all the verses today. If you don't believe me, you can find articles about it. Many people
 talk about it. At the same time, there is another position which also a great many number
 of saints are supportive of, okay. And we also find biblical support for that. It's
 called Uranapolitism. Uranapolitism means that your citizenship is in the heavens. So
 in this world you don't have citizenship, okay. It's all irrelevant where you happen
 to be born, where you happen to live. What matters is the heavens, okay. And we also
 find a lot of support for that. And these basically two camps, they cannot stand each
 other, okay. There is almost no grounds for compromise, okay. You're either this or you're
 that, okay. Pretty much. If you read the discussions and all the quarrels related to that, you'll
 see that it's either this or that, okay. Before I will tell you about the early church
 teaching that I found in several places actually. But today I'm going to refer to the pistol
 to Diognetus, okay, written most likely by Saint Justin the Martyr, the philosopher in
 about middle second century. But that will be in a while, okay. First of all, I want
 to tell you about these two views, okay. What are the dangers of every view, okay. This
 view that patriotism is good, supported. First of all, very logically if you support it,
 you will need to go to war, okay, if something happens. Especially if it's just war. What
 is just war, okay. This is one thing. Another thing is that you don't know who is ruling
 your country. Maybe these are the worst enemies. So are you fighting for them or you're fighting
 for your motherland? That's another difficult question that you'll be facing. And that's
 what we're facing now with Russia, okay. But I don't want to go to politics, okay. And
 of course there is another risk that you will slip into nationalism, okay. Nationalism when
 you will feel that your country, your nation are the best and superior to everything else,
 to every other nation. You'll be laughing, you'll be making jokes of other nations and
 races, okay. You'll be racist, you'll be fascist, you'll be nazist eventually. Okay, that's
 what is the risk there, okay. I'm not saying that every patriotic person goes there, of
 course not. But there is this risk. And okay, what is the risk with Urona politics? There
 is also some risks here, okay. Quite big. The biggest risk is that it will be mixed
 with cosmopolitanism. Cosmopolitanism is the idea that you are a citizen of the world.
 And all those liberal and mammon worshippers, they love to embrace cosmopolitanism, okay.
 Because that means that wherever you feel more comfortable, more money, better salaries,
 better groceries, more comfortable houses, social security, where you like, where your
 old self likes more, that's where you choose, okay. And it doesn't matter what this country
 is called, okay. It's called the US, it's called Canada, it's called Europe, it doesn't
 matter. So you say, oh, I'm a citizen of the world. I can go anywhere, I can live anywhere,
 I can make money online, okay, from any place in the world. I'm a citizen of the world.
 And this hedonistic idea, okay, very liberal, very ecumenistic, if you wish, it's basically
 just it's using uranapolitism to justify itself, okay. It was like, I'm uranapolitist, this
 is why I don't care about my country I come from. But actually you're cosmopolitanist,
 you're not uranapolitist, because there is a big difference. Uranapolitism means the
 heavenly kingdom is the most important, but you don't care about heavens. You care only
 about earthly benefits. And this is why it's called cosmopolitanism, okay. Cosmos, cosmos
 is the world, this corrupted, this filthy, this mammon, okay, you serve the prince of
 this world. That's what you are. But you cover yourself with this fig leaf of uranapolitism,
 okay. So that's the risk. And that's very common, okay, very common among those who
 are those advocates of uranapolitism. And now let me say about the early church understanding.
 The early church understanding is like that, okay. This is what it says, I'm almost quoting,
 I'm quoting by memory, okay. This is, if you want, you can find it, it's in chapter five
 of Epistle to Diognetus. Basically it says that any foreign country is my motherland,
 and every motherland is a foreign country. Sounds like Salfism, okay. Let's think deeper
 what it means. This means that if you, say, you live in a foreign country, not where you
 were born. Basically for you, of course, the most important motherland is the heavens,
 are the heavens. And this earthly place, even if it's a foreign country, it becomes like
 motherland, okay. You respect its tradition, its customs, you love its people, you obey
 the laws, okay, you're a good citizen, you wish this country to prosper, to have peace,
 this becomes your motherland, basically, pretty much earthly motherland, okay. At the same
 time, let's say you live in your motherland, where you were born, okay. Even though this
 is your motherland, okay, however you know that it's just like a hotel, okay, you stay
 here for some time and you'll go. And also this hotel has a lot of hostile things, it's
 also sitting in the evil, okay, because this prince of the world is ruling things here,
 okay. So don't think that, oh, this is my home, everything is so nice, so rosy, because
 this is my motherland, this is my fatherland. No, you don't need to have that deep attachment
 to this place, this is just a hotel. Yes, you like it, you have respect for it, okay,
 you love the people who are here, okay, like you love the enemies, you love the prosecutors,
 yes, however, your true motherland is in the heavens, okay. So basically the early
 church is uranapolitism, okay, but it should be understood correctly. And the metaphor
 which they use is that like this, say, your body, your body is carnal, okay, it's physical,
 your soul is spiritual, your soul is more important than your body. If you are spiritual,
 you love God more than anything else, and spiritual things. However, this doesn't mean
 that you hate your body. We're not meniki, okay, this menichism, gnostic sect who are
 saying that the body is a prison and all the evil comes from matter, from material things,
 so they hate their body. No, okay, we know that our body can have sins, can have desires,
 coming up sins, okay, lust, gluttony and many other things, okay, but it's not the body
 who is guilty, okay, it's our perverted soul which is guilty of that. And the body itself,
 you treat it well, okay, you can say you love it as a kotel in which you are now, like an
 instrument. Yes, you love your instrument, but you don't have like real attachment to
 it, you don't make it an idol. So, in the same sense, you love the place you are in right
 now, make it your homeland, don't be too obsessed, oh, I'm here, I'm a foreigner, so far away
 from my motherland. No, you're a Christian, your true motherland is in heaven, okay, just
 face it, where you are, do the mission of the Lord, wherever you are right now, this
 is all transitory, okay, and eventually your journey to your loving father will be complete
 by means of you living in this country. Another analogy I can bring is that like the heavenly
 father and the physical father. If you love your heavenly father, it doesn't mean you
 have to hate your physical father, or you should say any man is the same, okay, my father,
 your father, whoever's father, doesn't matter, no, it matters, your father matters, obey,
 venerate your father and your mother, so treat your country like your physical father with
 respect to your heavenly father. So I think the whole argument, the whole argument between
 this patriotism and uranapolitism is because people are mixing everything together, okay,
 basically people are very carnal minded, so they are pulling this uranapolitism and they
 say either this or that is either you love your heavenly kingdom or you love your earthly
 kingdom, motherland, so you either uranapolitism or your patriotism, well actually you can
 be both, but the thing is that the early church is not patriotic, okay, it's not cosmopolitanism
 by any means, okay, it is just dividing its different spheres, okay, one matter is your
 heavenly kingdom, it's above everything, your heart belongs to your heavenly kingdom completely
 and your earthly, well yes you're facing it, you need to live here, but it's all very transitory,
 so don't make an idol of it and unfortunately with this patriotism which is being stressed
 even in orthodox countries, very often it becomes like a fetish, okay, like an idol
 and people forget about their heavenly motherland and this is why they even are ready to go
 and die and kill for the interests of this motherland and even worse so for some crooks
 which are running this motherland and which are just making you an instrument of their
 plans. May the Lord keep us away from any delusion, from any worldliness, okay, I think
 this gradual support for patriotism within the church became part of this worldliness
 process, okay, which is not too bad but it's still progressing, okay, so may the Lord keep
 us away from worldliness, may we love his kingdom above everything else and may he make
 us the true servants and witnesses of his kingdom and its love and self-sacrifice, I
 mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
