 Dear brothers and sisters, there is this old question about "What is evil?"
 Today we will try to change the whole way we look at evil things, and see who is evil,
 what is evil, in the eyes of the Lord.
 Well, we see that we live in a world which is modern Babylon.
 There is so much evil out there, if you just read the news, it's all evil, there is almost
 nothing good happening.
 And of course, if you're a Christian, and if you're trying to live a spiritual life,
 you will see how much evil there is in the way people live inside ourselves, there is
 so much passion, evil, it's all over.
 And sometimes it even seems that it's not God who is ruling the world, but it's the
 devil who is ruling the world.
 Because all these people with power, influence, they are all, I don't know, Masons or some
 Satanists, occultists, from what is propagated through media, through this pseudo-culture,
 it's all evil.
 Some people are hoping that the right wing will bring something better, but this is just
 games, but in any case, there is the idea that evil and good are compensating each other.
 This is a very ancient pagan idea, and also the Kabbalists and the occultists, they have
 this idea that there is no evil, that the so-called evil is just a flip of good, and
 Kabbalists even say that we need to be very evil in order to become good, to have something
 good to come out of it.
 This is a very ancient thing, Chinese yin yang, light, darkness, cold, hot, the world
 is balanced, it needs to be balanced, so there is something good, there is something evil.
 Even within scholasticism, supposedly Christian theology, they say that evil is just a lack
 of good.
 Well, this is partly right, but whatever is partly right is wrong, so let us today talk
 about what the Bible says, and how do we look at all these things through the eyes of the
 Bible.
 In Job 34, 12, the original here is a question, because the King James translates it as a
 statement, but I will just translate it myself.
 Do you think that God would do improper things?
 This word in the King James is translated as wicked.
 The Greek original here is atopa, and this is a very important concept, we see it quite
 a few times in both the Old Testament and the New Testament.
 Atopa, it sounds similar to utopia, English word utopia, and it actually has the same
 structure.
 U is no, topias, topia comes from topos, which is a place, so something that has no place,
 utopia is some fantastic ideal world, which doesn't exist, and it cannot exist, it is
 just imagination, it is just fantasy, it is fake, and delusion, so this is why the devil
 is a master of dreams, he sends you all kinds of dreams, imaginations, how bright something
 will be if you do this, or if you do that, so atopa also comes from a, no, topos, things
 which have no place, so it can be translated as improper, but improper is a very soft word,
 it means something that has no ground, that has no place for it, whatever is created by
 God, whatever is blessed by God has its place, God has placed his blessing upon this, upon
 that, but some things they don't have to be blessed, and these are the things which are
 atopa, they don't have their place to fall into, and that is why it is talking about
 evil, it is talking about sin, so lawlessness, vanity, this is a very good word in English,
 vanity, because these words in Hebrew come from the word shaf, and shaf means empty,
 it is empty, sometimes we say empty person, whatever is against the will of God, doesn't
 have true existence, this is a little bit philosophical, but just bear with me for a
 second, God is absolute goodness, and whatever he created is good, he created this, he looked
 good, this is good, things are good, so whatever comes from God is good, but so it is related
 to God, directly, somehow, and that's why it exists, it exists in so much as it is related
 to God, this is a little philosophical, but I think it is not so difficult to understand,
 because our mind thinks differently, we think, ok, this exists, I can touch it, you say,
 I don't know, I don't know, a pen, say, a pen, ok, I can touch this pen, then it exists,
 then it is real, well, for the Lord, it is not like that, if this is according, this
 is has any meaning for me, it has any goodness in it, ok, then it exists, as long as it doesn't,
 it is atopa, it has no place, so my spirit is withdrawn from this thing, whenever my
 spirit withdraws from something or somewhat, it is decaying and dying, it is perishing,
 and this is, we've talked a few videos ago about Avadon, something that doesn't have
 God's blessing and God's presence, it's destruction, it's desolation, if you will, it's the vanity,
 it's emptiness, ok, so, we can talk about things which are against God's will, ok, you
 can think about this also like this, we have things which exist, ok, because they are related
 to God, they bear blessing of God, and there are things which they are out there, but they
 don't really have existence, ok, God hates these things, this comes from, we can see
 in Psalm 45 verse 8, thou has loved truth and hated iniquity, or lawlessness, it's the
 same as atopa, the Lord hates, he has a domination towards something like that, ok, so, these
 things are out there, I'm not saying they're absent, they're there, we have this Babylon
 out there, ok, and here also, in every one of us, we should remember that, ok, and now,
 the Lord creates a gar, a fence, to protect this thing, and this fence, or this gar, is
 called the law of God, it's the commandments, ok, which are there just to protect what exists
 from what does not exist, ok, from what is avadon, corruption, destruction, filthiness,
 death, suffering, pain, death, ok, so, whenever we break the law of God, we fall into this
 thing, and that's why when someone wants unlimited freedoms, it means that he wants to live in
 avadon, and that means death, ok, and he becomes an instrument of devil, and now we're coming
 to an important question, ok, we can have things, some sins, some filthy things, that
 are not pleasing to God, which he hates, etc, but can we have atopa people, ok, can we have
 people who are atopi, ok, in Greek, that have no place for existence, ok, and to talk about
 this, first let's think about things, can we have atopa things, well, let's say we have
 a stone, ok, the stone is created by God, so it has goodness in it, ok, it exists, it
 has its existence, now we use this stone to kill people, we make an axe, we make an axe
 or hammer, and we go and use it just for killing people, if this becomes an instrument, especially
 designed and used for the purpose of killing people, this thing becomes atopa, this thing
 becomes atopon, ok, and of course when we cease using it, say it's been 300 years ago,
 now we have this axe, we found it in the museum, and from this museum we study about this civilization
 which lived, ok, then it's not, it's just an exponent, ok, it's not atopon anymore,
 but it's talking about those atopa things which were done by the people back then, so
 the thing can go back and forth, it can become atopon and it can come back, it can come back
 into something that has some meaning, some usefulness to it, some reason for existence,
 we can use it even for good purposes, ok, for building house or something else, ok,
 so now, people, because this is serious, people, they are created according to the image of
 the Lord, can we say that people who are sinners or like evil, bad sinners, can they become
 apopy? Well, let's see what the Bible tells us, ok, let's see Thessalonians chapter, the
 second Thessalonians, chapter 3 verse 2, basically it says from chapter, from verse 1, "Brethren,
 pray for us that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for not all men
 have faith." Ok, well, here the word "unreasonable" in the Greek is atopon, is both atopon and
 evil, poniros, poniron, and this means the people of vanity, people of desolation, people
 of avadon, if you will, and they pretend to be brethren, because they just don't have
 faith, they are sort of brethren, but they don't have faith. So, this brings us to this
 very important conclusion that people can become, can become atopon, atopy, they can
 become a domination in the eyes of the Lord. In the Psalms we see some verses, ok, that
 they will be scattered like smoke, ok, or that the men of blood and delusion, they will
 not live half their days, will die young, and many similar things. Of course, sometimes
 they live two hundred years, but that's another question. Anyhow, there are people who become
 like that. It's worse than just a sinner. It's a sinner that deliberately chooses sin
 as a rebellion against God. Let's say a heresy. A heresy is deliberately choosing to be against
 God, and standing firm on that position, not willing to repent. It's similar with other
 kind of sinners, let's say, people who love to hurt others, they enjoy it. It's not that
 they've got angry, they've said something rude, and they then repent, they say "well,
 it's not bad, there was too much, next time I'll try to do better". No, that's how it's
 supposed to be, and I am waiting for the next chance to do the same, and even more. So,
 whenever the sin becomes our second nature, and we find pleasure, this satanic pleasure
 in sin, and we choose to stay that way, that's when we slip into this atopon. Whenever you
 yourself feel that you are in there, or you see others in there, basically that's a domination
 in the eyes of the Lord. In Job, we also see that he knows about these things, but he doesn't
 want to know, because he hates. He's looking upon it, but he doesn't want to see it, because
 he knows everything, but he doesn't want to know, because it's against his will, it's
 a domination in his eyes. So, that's vanity, that's decomposition, this is something that's
 going to destruction, and now the question comes, men are created by God. The same way
 as Satan is created by God, and there is always, for example, for Satan, or for this atopon,
 these people, there is always a big tension, because his own existence, he is there, as
 Satan he will be there forever, and also the souls, they don't just annihilate, they still
 exist, and those who belong to the hell, to the Avadon, they will go to eternal condemnation,
 so the biggest pain and suffering will and is already coming from understanding Satan,
 he understands that his existence is thanks to God. He has to be thankful to God for his
 own existence, and here he is against God, he has rebellion, and he wants God to disappear.
 So he has this tension, this is why he is so nervous, this is why there is no peace,
 there is always this worries, tension, and etc. coming with it, and that's why we have
 so much depression, anxiety, mental disorders, not the inborn, I'm talking about those who
 are developed while people live in this world of Babylon. So, ask Christians who choose
 goodness, who choose God, we should not be too much respectful, or take it as something
 objective out there, like really serious threat or something, or anything that pertains to
 Avadon. Yes, it can harm us, it harmed Jesus himself, he was killed by this wars, but he
 was never afraid of it, we don't see him ever being afraid of it. Yeah, he is cautious,
 and he told his disciples, be cautious of man, because they will take you and bring
 you to their synagogues, and they will beat you and some of you will be killed. But it
 doesn't matter, it doesn't mean that you need to be afraid of that. Let us not be empty,
 let us get rid of any evil that we still may have in our hearts, in our lives, anything
 that might belong to that realm of darkness, of Avadon. The problem with the sin, even
 if you repent, you're not yet in this Avadon, but every time we sin, we are sleeping in
 that direction. So, say you've sinned, you've repented, you've sinned, you've repented,
 then you've sinned more, you've repented, then you've sinned even more, and maybe next
 time you'll say, forget it, I'm like that, okay, and you will sleep into Avadon, that
 you will no longer, your conscience will be destroyed for good, and you will be enjoying
 being in Avadon annihilated from God, okay, and that's where most of the world is at this
 moment, and the Lord is waiting, of course, in the same way as we can say this stone,
 the axe, can come back to being blessed, of course, a man can come back even faster, okay,
 because that's what he is created for, to be with God, not to be in Avadon, so there
 is always hope, at least for us, we hope, and the Lord also hopes, but he knows more,
 so at some point there is some cutting edge, he will say, no hope anymore, cut out, so
 may we avoid such destiny, may we have compassion to those people who are on that path.
 There is a saint even, I think it was Saint Simeon, he said that we need to even have
 compassion toward the devil, okay, he chose the wrong way, and he slipped into that misery,
 but he was able to have something much, much better than he has now.
 So let us have humbleness, let us love our Lord, let us love life, let us draw from the
 source of life, and never slip into the path of Avadon and even get anywhere close to that.
 May the Lord give us his blessing, and may the life himself, Jesus Christ, live in every
 one of us, wherever there is life, there is no death, there is no corruption, no destruction,
 no delusion, no faithness, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
