 Dear brothers and sisters, every day we are facing all kinds of temptations, and some
 of them come from our sinful nature, some are coming from devil directly, from some
 people maybe, from some circumstances, from the weather, from the sickness, some are coming
 from God, maybe, if we are able to classify, to understand the nature of temptations, of
 different temptations, we can gain wisdom, and we would be able to use them for the best,
 for the best of our own spiritual life, salvation, and for the best of everyone else.
 So today, I want to look into this issue together with you, and let us begin with the Epistle
 of James.
 Epistle of the Apostle James, the first chapter, is beginning with these words.
 Chapter 1, verse 2, "My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations,
 knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.
 But let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.
 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and
 abradeth not, and it shall be given him."
 This wisdom is especially the wisdom of distinguishing what temptation is coming from where.
 So we see that temptations can have a very beneficial use for us, and actually take up
 your cross and follow me.
 This means face the temptations that you have and follow me, but it's not that simple.
 Put it below in verse 12, saying, Epistle of James, chapter 1, verse 12, "Blessed is the
 man that endureth nepotation.
 For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised
 to them that love him."
 Very good.
 The next verse, "Let no man say, when he is tempted, 'I am tempted of God.'
 For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man; but every man is tempted
 when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed; and when lust has conceived, it bringeth
 forth sin, and seeing when it is finished, bringeth forth death."
 This is a little bit strange, don't you think, that first, he says, rejoice when you have
 temptations, because these will bring you to stronger faith, to patience, and to salvation.
 But then he says, temptation comes from lust, and lust and all this gives birth to death,
 to sin.
 So, it's really not clear, if we just take it literally, it's not clear.
 Well, if we research the Holy Scripture, we will find that there are different types of
 temptations.
 And it's using the exact same verb, "pirazo" in Greek, "nissa" in Hebrew, it's all the
 same verb, but it has different meanings.
 And we say even in English, tempted, tried, contested, different verbs, but examined.
 But in Hebrew and in Greek, it's all the same verb.
 Here we see that God is not tempted with evil.
 But in Hebrews 2, 8, 18, Apostle Paul says that he, being tempted himself, he can help
 those who are tempted.
 So Jesus was tempted, and he is both man and God.
 We know that he was tempted by the devil, that's in Matthew 4.1, and after baptism,
 he went into the mountain and there he was tempted.
 The saints, they help us, they help us explain, they help us understand that there are different
 types of temptations.
 And actually, the temptation can come from God.
 In Deuteronomy 13, 3, the Lord tempteth us, you, the people of Israel, to know whether
 you love him or not.
 And there are other places.
 He was tempting Abraham when he told him to go and sacrifice, to kill his son, Isaac.
 He tempted others, he tempted Israel, he tempted Joseph, and there are other instances, Shoshanna,
 and many other instances.
 And actually, Jesus himself, he was tempting his disciples.
 In John 6, 6, we read that he tempted the apostle Philip when he asked him how many
 breads do you have, remember, before he was breaking the breads, to test his faith.
 And there are many, many other instances.
 So we need to distinguish between different types of temptations.
 This is a big topic, but today I want to hit the main points.
 The main point is, the main distinction that we should make is that there are temptations
 which are born in our heart.
 And those temptations are either coming from our sinful nature, from our perverted, passionate
 heart, passionate in the best sense, or they are inspired by the devil.
 He's whispering and we are replying and we receive this sinful thing, temptation, and
 then it develops into sin.
 That's one type, that's one type, it's born inside.
 This is the type that apostle James is talking about, that says, don't say that God is tempting
 you.
 Because in his community there were some people who were saying, lead us not into temptation.
 The Lord told us to pray, lead us not into temptation.
 Well maybe we prayed not well enough, so the Lord, he led us into temptation.
 And what does that mean?
 I am sinning, I am indulging in some sinful life.
 Well, it's God is tempting me.
 I am doing this because God is tempting me and I cannot do anything differently.
 I cannot withstand this temptation.
 And that was a great blasphemy.
 And this is what apostle James is refusing to prove, he says, no, never say that.
 Because you will be like Adam, who said, oh, I sinned because of the woman who you gave
 me.
 So he's returning this blame, he's blaming God for his sin.
 And you would be doing the same if you would say, I was tempted by God.
 And that's why I sinned.
 So this is what apostle James is against.
 However, there are some temptations which are either given directly from God or they
 come from devil, but they are allowed.
 The Lord says, okay, do it.
 If you want, he gives a sanction, he gives a permission for the devil like Job, okay.
 Job, he was tempted by devil, but that was allowed by God for some purpose.
 And there are different purposes that God may allow temptations.
 So there are different types of temptations.
 So first of all, temptations that are coming directly from God, what kind of temptations
 are those?
 Like Abraham, okay, or like tempting Israel, okay.
 Tempting Israel in the Exodus, okay.
 You can also see it in Deuteronomy 8, 2, okay.
 I won't read all of it.
 Or in the Genesis 22, 1, that's Abraham.
 And actually David, he's saying, Lord tempt me in Psalm 26, 2.
 David himself is asking God to tempt him, okay.
 So that means that it is possible that God would be tempting man, okay.
 But that kind of temptation always brings some hope and some opportunity that whenever
 you pass that test, you would deepen your relationship with God, okay.
 He will see that you love him, it will be proven by what you've done and you will be
 closer to him.
 This is the purpose and the nature of temptation coming from God himself.
 And if you don't pass, you don't slip into sin, but it will be different kind of life.
 It won't be as good a relationship, okay.
 For example, that young man who came to Jesus and he asked what do I do to become perfect,
 to receive life.
 He told him keep the commandments, but he wanted more.
 So the Lord told him, if you want to be perfect, sell all your stuff and give it to the poor
 and come follow me.
 That was also a temptation.
 And if he would say yes, I'll do that, he would gain a very close relationship.
 He would become one of the apostles if he could make that step, but he refused.
 And the Lord didn't say, oh, you're a sinner, you go to hell.
 No, you choose different path, okay, it's your choice, okay.
 But you won't be an apostle and you won't be perfect.
 So that is the case with the temptations.
 Usually they are given to the people who really would be consciously receiving, embracing
 God and coming closer and closer to him through such temptations.
 And there is no risk into falling into some evil bad scene with those temptations.
 Unlike the temptations coming from the devil, okay.
 And the temptations coming from the devil, now I'm not talking about the internal that
 is seen, okay, that he's putting in your heart, okay.
 Do that, betray that person, steal that money, okay, get angry at them.
 Not that kind of temptations, but temptation that is externally coming upon us, okay.
 And those externally coming temptations, we also can divide into two main categories.
 One is that we suffer, that is like painful, okay, sickness, say it, or betrayal, or we're
 losing something, somebody stole our stuff, okay, or we've been beaten up or scolded,
 okay, some kind of painful thing, evil coming upon us.
 And another type is something that looks attractive, looks good, but if we take it, it is harmful,
 okay.
 It's a sin, okay, but it looks like something good, it's seducing us into that.
 And then we will also usually have pain and suffering, but that will come later.
 So both of those are usually coming from the devil.
 It could come through people, through circumstances, but the ultimate source of that is the devil,
 okay.
 And these kinds of temptations, some we get into it by our stupidity, we just go to places
 where we will have those temptations, okay.
 But some are not because of stupidity, some are because the Lord allowed the devil to
 harm us.
 It's not the devil can do whatever he wants to us, no.
 For some reason, maybe because of our sins, or maybe for some other reasons, these are
 also different types of reasons, okay.
 The Lord allowed the devil to do this harm to us, okay.
 And this kind of sin can bring a big harm to our soul.
 If we don't face it, okay, if it's that pain and harm, we need to face it with patience
 and thankfulness to God and repentance, otherwise we will fail, spiritually we will fail.
 If it's some seduction, okay, then we need to overcome it by ignoring this seduction,
 okay, choosing the righteousness and chastity, and that will allow us to grow in virtue.
 But if we give in to it, we will go to hell, okay, we will harm ourselves.
 So these temptations are very risky, they bring a lot of risk with them.
 So these are the main types, these are the main types of temptations, of course we can
 divide it even into more categories, but something very important, Saint Nicodemus of Mount Athos,
 he tells us that no matter what temptation you are talking about, always accuse yourself,
 okay, don't be, you know, just always have, having some analysis, okay, oh this is coming
 from devil, or coming from people through devil, or it's coming from my own, okay, don't,
 especially when it's something painful, okay, just repent, just say it's because of my
 sins, I have, I experience this pain, this loss, this harm by other people, or by something
 else because of my own sins, and if we have such harm, then we will gain humbleness, meekness,
 repentance, and the Lord will look differently upon us, and the Lord may easily make these
 temptations easier to bear, will send his help, or maybe he will just withdraw, remove these
 temptations from our life, or maybe he will give us something else so that our virtue
 can be tested, and we can bring a great example of faith to all others, like the holy martyrs,
 okay, but the Lord will see that we have humble heart, we don't complain, we don't run away,
 and we take it as a pill, okay, I'm talking about those painful temptations, okay, and
 if it's something sinful, like something seducing us, also we are avoiding it, okay, we're throwing
 it away, and the Lord will see that we have such a patient and loyal to him heart, that
 he will also extend his mercy upon us, okay, and give us consolation, and he will lead
 us into strength, and into victory over devil, so if we do that, we will not be subject to
 any judgment by God, because we judge ourselves already, this is 1 Corinthians 11 31, whoever
 is judging himself already, he will not be judged by God, okay, in the Lord's eyes he
 will be righteous, he will be pleasing to the Lord, and we will be on this path of salvation,
 this is also what the Apostle is telling us in the beginning of chapter 1, okay, that
 have joy when you have all kinds of temptations around you, okay, it will bring you to salvation,
 so brothers and sisters, let us be wise, let us have great patience, no matter whether
 these temptations are something happening with us, or with our beloved ones, or with
 the whole world for that purpose, okay, because in Revelation 3 10, we see that the big temptation
 will come upon the face of all earth, on the whole universe, to test the hearts of man
 upon the earth, and we are approaching that those days, those times, okay, and that test
 will need to determine whether people are with God or with money, okay, there has to
 be a final clarification about that, okay, and we need to be ready for those days, we
 are now beginning the Christmas land that we are waiting for Messiah who is coming,
 and by having our hearts with him, we are choosing to go through any temptation that
 there can be, because that temptation will tell if we are with him or not, so this is
 what we need to be ready for, and this is why we have all these daily temptations that
 we are facing every day, may the Lord help us, give us strength, give us joy, and give
 us the union with our beloved Lord, he said that when the Son of Man cometh, will he find
 faith on earth?
 There will be so few people who want him, who choose him, who are loyal to him, because
 people will be immersed in mammon, the whole world, okay, in this worldly hassle, but only
 few ones will be loyal to him till the end, may we be among those faithful and loyal to
 him till the end, no matter how big is the cost, I mean, God bless our sisters.
