 Dear brothers and sisters, on December 4th the Holy Church is celebrating the entrance of the Holy Theotokos into the Temple.
 We will celebrate this until December 8th.
 This celebration is based on an event which is not recorded in the Holy Scripture.
 But from the ancient times the Church has kept this tradition and it's known for sure that this event has occurred.
 That the Mother of God, the ever-virgin Mary, she was brought into the Temple by her parents as their sacrifice to the Lord.
 For hearing their prayers and granting to them this only child in their late years.
 And why is this event so important?
 This is a great blessing that we have this celebration during the Advent.
 This is the only big feast that we celebrate during the Advent.
 And it happens to have a very intimate connection.
 The Temple was the place where humans met God.
 And it was a special presence of the Lord.
 He is omnipresent.
 But in the Holy Temple it was a special place of His presence.
 This is why it's called the Holy Temple.
 Iron, Kadosh. And there is the Holy of the Holies, within the Holy Temple.
 So these places, and she was taken to the Holy of the Holies, to that place.
 And this was necessary to prepare the people to venerate the Holy.
 To understand that God is the supreme mystery.
 However, this preparation led to the union of the supreme God with man.
 So that everyone can become the Temple of God.
 That everyone can be the living Temple.
 And that the Holy Spirit can come and dwell within the hearts of the faithful.
 He said, we, me and God the Father will come and make a dwelling in the place.
 Make a dwelling in the heart of the one who loves God.
 And the Apostle Paul is telling us that your bodies are the Temples of the Holy Spirit.
 We need to think deeply.
 How is this all related?
 We have the Mother of God who is entering into this Temple and she becomes the new Temple.
 This entrance is signifying that now the new era is beginning.
 The new era is beginning because God will come and dwell in her first.
 So that she can give birth to the Holy One, the Messiah.
 And in this way she will participate in opening this path to the Messiah.
 Becoming human and allowing humans to unite with God.
 So she is signifying this new time.
 When limited humans, limited in their body, in their life, in everything can become vessels of the unlimited.
 All powerful, all wise, all mighty God.
 And at the same time this will mark the soon abomination, the soon abolishment.
 Abolishment of this old Temple.
 And this coincides with the Jewish leaders and most of the people coming to the degree that they are not yet worthy for that ministry.
 So the event that happens today is related to another event in the negative sense.
 There is an event which is opposing. Today we celebrate, during these days, we celebrate the entrance of the Mother of God.
 And all of us want to enter into the Holy of the Holies and become the Temples of the Living God.
 But at the same time this is related to another event when Jesus is chasing away those who are buying and selling and changing money in the Temple.
 Those ministers of Mammon, those Jews who are ministering Mammon in the Temple.
 And they made it the nest of the robbers.
 And we are risking the same.
 We need to think about this well.
 That we are risking the same not to become the Temples of God but to have God leave us, to depart from us in the same way as He departed from the Jews and from their Temple.
 And the Temple was destroyed very soon.
 So what do we need to avoid that?
 Brothers and sisters, let us think deeply.
 First of all, to become the Temple of God it could be on the individual level.
 That I, through holy life, through obedience to God, through cleaning away my soul from every defilement, every evil thought, every intention, any sinful practice in my life.
 I am becoming ready to be a vessel of the Holy Spirit.
 That is on the individual level.
 But this is not enough.
 On the family level I need to establish the small church.
 And whatever is not in line with the life in Christ I need to work with it.
 As much as I can for my part because the family is not only me.
 And not let Christ depart from my family.
 And then on the level of parish, of the small parish community, it takes everyone's effort.
 We are not just waiting for the priest to fix everything.
 It is everyone's effort to create the Temple of God, the living Temple of God here in this community.
 From what it takes on my part, on your part.
 And then we are talking about the whole church.
 Maybe local church and then the whole universal church.
 So, whatever is not in line, whatever stinks, whatever is a domination.
 That is when Christ is leaving.
 He is leaving me, he is leaving my family, he is leaving this parish, he is leaving the whole church.
 The local church, like I said, he won't leave the whole universal church, but he may leave the local church.
 If we are not doing what we need to do.
 And what usually happens? Usually it is three things.
 One is mamon. Be it money, be it comfort, enjoyment, earthly values.
 Generally speaking, economic part of it.
 That we like those who are buying and selling.
 They would say, "Oh, we do it all for making the Temple more beautiful."
 But that was a lie.
 They were doing it for their own enrichment.
 And they have already no God in their hearts.
 Only mamon became their God.
 And the second thing is the will for power.
 That could be in the form of bureaucracy, in the form of democracy.
 We have this always counting, let's vote, let's do this, let's do that.
 Bureaucracy. Some kind of rules, we want to go by earthly rules to manage this organization.
 This organizational administrative thing.
 It could be in our family, it could be in our parish, it could be in our local church.
 Whenever this becomes the predominant thing, we forget about love, we forget about Christ.
 We don't trust him.
 He says, "Okay, you don't trust me, I will go. You can run it on your own."
 And then it becomes just an empty framework.
 It becomes just human organization and maybe even has some evil spirit guiding it.
 And that's what happened with Catholics and Protestants.
 And there is a big danger that we have that developing within the Orthodox Church as well.
 Let us be aware of that.
 The Lord will not allow the whole Church to go astray.
 But people can harm it big time.
 Again, we begin with ourselves, we don't judge others.
 We just need to know that there are risks on every level.
 The biggest risk for us is what is happening with me and not what is happening with the patriarch and so forth.
 And the third thing which is also happening and we are risking is when politics comes within our life.
 Be it on individual level.
 I am obsessed about politics.
 I read all the politics, I am there.
 If you ask me anything, I can tell you so many things about it.
 Because for me, Christ doesn't matter.
 He is not controlling the world.
 He is not guiding this world anywhere.
 He is these politicians for deciding.
 And I am always unhappy or I worship this one, I hate that one.
 I criticize government for corruption, this and that.
 It could be on parish level when we have these quarrels or we have a priest who has this political idea and he is preaching it to the people.
 If you have priest like that, find another parish.
 But don't be the church.
 So we can have it on any level.
 Let us be aware of that.
 Let us be aware of that.
 Let us not become preachers of any political agenda, any ideology.
 We are children of the living God.
 For us, Christ is everything.
 Everything that is happening is all about Christ.
 Otherwise, he will leave our temple.
 And this temple will be empty and there will be no need for this temple.
 And eventually he will be abolished and destroyed.
 So brothers and sisters, let us think deeply about these things.
 Let us think deeply about the Lord who is coming.
 If we have not chased away those things we have just mentioned, and there are more, but these are the main ones.
 Then there is no need for us to celebrate the entrance of the Most Holy Theotokos to the temple.
 There is no need to celebrate the advent to wait for Christmas.
 No need.
 We should not lie to ourselves.
 We are either with Christ, till the end, without any compromise.
 Or we are with Mammon, with ourselves, enjoying our own well-being or suffering problems.
 But we don't need Christ.
 Let us be honest to ourselves.
 Do we need him?
 Do we find refuge in him?
 Do we seek help from him?
 Rely on him in everything we do.
 If not, then we are not Christians.
 May the Lord give us pure hearts, help us cleanse away every defilement, any worldly thought, idea, and be loyal to him till the end.
 I mean.
 God bless, brothers and sisters.
