 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to talk about one big issue within the church.
 Before I get into it, I want to clarify something about what is the church.
 We read in the creed that we believe in one holy catholic and apostolic church.
 Holy. The church is holy, but we understand it in a wrong way.
 It is holy in the sense that it is dedicated to God.
 And it is given a different mission and different ability, different calling.
 And it is guarded by God, by the holy commandments and by the grace of the Lord.
 However, this doesn't mean, as we usually think, that you have to be 100% holy and shining to be a part of the church.
 Well, usually we think for me, yes, but I have an idea that the church itself is holy holy.
 And this creates a wrong idea about some abstract holy church.
 That is somewhere, it is out there somewhere.
 It is not me, it is not the brothers and sisters around me, but it is out there somewhere and I believe in it.
 And this is wrong. This is wrong idea.
 And the Protestants, they have used this idea which developed within the Orthodox Church.
 But they are using this idea to say, yes, of course, yes, there is invisible church, it is somewhere out there.
 And it is just a matter of either you, me belong to it or not.
 And this is irrelevant of the earthly entity, say Orthodox Church or Protestant or Anglican, Lutheran, Catholic, it is irrelevant.
 It is some holy church out there and you can be part of it or you are not part of it.
 So they have used this idea and they have created and they have used it to approve their heresy.
 To be comfortable within their heresy and not to have an excuse not to join Orthodox Church.
 So what is the real situation? The real situation is that God has created, has established his church and it is visible church.
 He did not establish invisible church, brothers and sisters. He established visible church.
 He himself became visible, he came to this world. It is not out there somewhere.
 It is us, Orthodox Christians, not all Orthodox Christians, but everyone who has not walked astray, let's put it this way.
 And went far enough to break himself out of the church on this spiritual level.
 So there are parables. There are parables of the yeast put in the flour and the flour is rising to make the bread.
 The flour can be different. The flour is us. It could be better, worse. The yeast is good, but the flour could be so-so.
 It is still rising, but the bread maybe is not too tasty. But it is still bread, it is not something else.
 If the flour is not flour, the flour is garbage, then maybe it will rise, but it will be something else. It will be something crooked.
 It will be something ugly and miserable and the Lord would despise that thing. It is not church.
 But we would be a church, even with all of us. We have our limitations, we have our wrong ideas, we have sometimes our weaknesses, we drift away and then we come back.
 And this is the church. We are the church. As long as we are loyal to Christ and we are exerting all our... we are trying.
 Some people are half and half, but we are trying to follow Christ.
 Or there is another parable of the ground. The seed is good, but the ground, if it is just a desert, then there will be nothing growing up.
 But if the ground is not super good, yes, it will rise, it will bring fruit, maybe not hundredfold, maybe twofold, maybe onefold, but it will bring some fruit.
 If it brings no fruit, because of thorns, stones, like the road stiffness, then it is not a church. It is some heart which did not bring any fruit.
 And the Lord said it will be cut out and sent away.
 And he is telling this to us, that you will be cut out if you don't change. But not yet, not yet cut out.
 So we who are still trying to follow Christ, who are orthodox, we are not believing some other Christ.
 The heretics, they believe something else. They don't believe the true Christ.
 That is why there is not a single saint in the all heterodox so-called heretic world.
 So today I want to talk about this place, the church as we have it, and the problems that we have within the church.
 I am not talking about heretics, I am not talking about people who are other religions, atheists, etc. secular.
 However, these problems that I am going to talk about today, they relate also to any human group, be it secular, be it heretical.
 I want to talk about the spirit of Babylon and the spirit of Cain.
 And it is another big topic, what is the spirit of Babylon and the spirit of Cain. Today I won't go deep into it, but just to be brief, I will describe it in the following way.
 The Babylon is when you think that you believe God, but you build something else.
 You are busy with something else belonging to this world.
 You are building a Babylon tower, be it earning more money, developing your career, becoming more knowledgeable in science,
 developing some other project, or becoming a sportsman.
 It could be anything that your heart is in there, it is not with Christ, it is not concerned with the kingdom of heaven.
 So you are dragged by the spirit of Babylon.
 And usually it is related to ecumenism, because you will see that you are not much different than people in other sects or religions.
 So it is very logical for you to become a communist and to have this covered by love, as though you love everyone.
 But it is not related to loving God. You love this world.
 So this is the spirit of Babylon. It is related to ecumenism. Let's talk about the issues within the church.
 In the Orthodox countries, where you have plenty of Orthodox, millions, tens of hundreds of millions,
 this spirit became prevalent, not prevalent, I shouldn't say prevalent, but it became very powerful over the last 30 years.
 Over the last 30 years, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, it became super influential, let's put it this way.
 It is not that all the Orthodox became possessed by the spirit, but it brought great effect on many, massive levels.
 So on the level of faithful, it can be seen in consumerism, in caring more about your real estate, your finance, your job, your comfort, your hobbies, anything.
 And yes, I am Orthodox. I am baptized, I am Orthodox, I go to church. Many people don't go to church, some do, but they still have that mamanistic mindset.
 Selfish and worldly. Fasting, why? We are not Pharisees, so it can be relaxed, and we put the chairs in the church, and it has many different ways of manifesting itself.
 On the level of clergy and hierarchs, it can take other forms. Of course, there are mamanists and all the clergy which needs expensive cars and a nice Hugo boss, whatever.
 I'm not talking about those, those are Judas, most of them are not members of the church, but for those who are not completely immersed in that, also some Babylon spirit is there.
 For example, when there is a greater importance, not on pastoral work, not on spiritual work, not on mission, but rather building churches, decorating churches, having big massive parties.
 I don't know, having more influence in media, you can feel that it has some earthly spirit to it, having much closer ties with government to get more benefits, protection, and becoming completely dependent on the government.
 Or getting involved in some politics. All of that is, or nationalism for that matter, become all a great church, say, of Russia, or Greece, or Romania, or Serbia, and we are all Serbians, and stuff like that.
 This is worldliness, and this is basically Babylon. It's building on some wrong basis. It's finding refuge, it's something earthly.
 And the problem is, and of course not everybody, okay, not everybody became like that, but I'm talking about this because this is a threat, this is a virus that we need to fight with.
 And the dangerous part is that now it seems that we are coming to another stage, even more troublesome.
 This is the stage when the spirit of Babylon is being replaced or complemented by the spirit of Cain. Because once you've built a tower, the Tower of Babel, you've built it, somebody needs to live in it.
 Not just as a house for people, it's built that there will be some spirit in this tower. Sometimes God has allowed some labor of Canines or Babylonians to be given over to the children of God.
 But more often it's used by the children of this world, children of Mammon, of darkness, of devil.
 And eventually the spirit of Cain is coming to dwell in this tower. So this project of the Babylon Tower is in line with the project of Cain.
 And Cain, what is in a nutshell the spirit of Cain? It's not about building something. The spirit of Cain is more about destroying.
 It brings hatred, it brings aggression, totalitarian, a grip. It is a different spirit. It's a militant and a spirit of hatred, a spirit of murder, a spirit of anger.
 So this spirit is coming and is now finding his path to the hearts of the Orthodox. Of course this is happening on the secular level also.
 These last 30 years were also globalization, consumerism and all this ecumenism. This was happening on the world level, in the secular world, in the heretic world.
 But now another spirit is coming and this is the spirit of Cain, the spirit of hatred, the spirit of finding who is the enemy. And we hate this enemy and we protect something.
 Of course we closed it. Now I'm talking about this manifestation of the spirit within the church. And some people become supporters and propagandists of hatred.
 Finding some excuses. Finding that it's for the benefit, say, for the great Orthodox empire or traditional values or on the side of this other side.
 We are proponents of democracy, freedom, openness, stuff like that. But to do that we need rockets, we need to give weapons, we need to fight.
 There is some evil that we need to destroy. So no matter which side you're on, this spirit is now taking its prevalence.
 And the more we are worldly, the more we are subject to the spirit of Cain.
 And brothers and sisters, I hope that you can see in yourself, of course, these temptations, and also when you're listening to someone.
 When you're listening to someone, because the world now is divided and the Orthodox unfortunately are divided on this issue, and you might see either of these spirits.
 But now the spirit of Babylon is going away. This is like there was this liberal rhetoric, that human rights and this and that, and we need to give it to all the minorities and whatever.
 But all of a sudden it became totalitarian, that we'll persecute whoever is not in line. Or with this, what we had just recently in 2020, beginning in 2020, this big sickness.
 We also saw how this so-called liberal and full of love and respect rhetoric changed to complete totalitarian dictatorship.
 That's the spirit of Cain, which is coming instead of the Babylon. We need to develop this symbolic understanding, symbolic thinking. Brothers and sisters, it will help us a lot, and we need to distinguish this.
 And even though there is this big threat within the church, I am convinced that the Holy Spirit is guiding the church, and we will be able to overcome all these threats, as long as we are faithful to Christ.
 Let us put great effort into prayer, into repentance, into spiritual life, into forgiving everyone, weeping for our sins, testimony of love towards everyone around us.
 Only this active Christian love, not just knowing things, learning. Learning is good, it's not enough. We need to put great effort into prayer, otherwise we will be spiritually alienated from God.
 We will bring no fruit, and we will be cut out from his holy church in one way or another. May the Lord keep us from all the evil, give us wisdom, give us his guidance, give us the vigilance, the soberness, so that we can be ready for any challenge and overcome, avoid any delusion.
 I mean, God bless, brothers and sisters.
