 Dear brothers and sisters, we are approaching the new year, and even though the secular
 new year is not a church celebration, it almost coincides with Christmas, with the nativity
 of the Lord and our expectations for the new life with Him.
 So today I want to share, I want to take this opportunity to share with you some thoughts
 about the year which is passing, and especially about the year which is upcoming.
 Well as Christians, for us the great virtue is thankfulness, so first of all we should
 be thankful for the Lord, for the year which is almost over, for all the joyful things
 and especially for the sorrowful, for painful things that the Lord allowed to happen so
 that we can be challenged, we can grow, we can gain experience, we can become better.
 And also we should express repentance, repentance to the Lord for everything that we have not
 done, that He was expecting us to do in this last year, or the past year, but we were not
 doing what we were supposed to do, or not doing it well enough.
 This is the greatest grief and sorrow that we can have, okay?
 Not about what happened with politics, what happened with technology or somewhere else,
 no, the main thing is us and the Lord, okay?
 For the Lord, this relationship between His children and Himself is what matters, everything
 else is secondary, we need to understand, this is spiritual.
 And having said that, let us look into the upcoming year.
 First of all, we need to distinguish two things, okay?
 The worldly affairs and turmoil and crises, or crises which are coming, and we can be
 almost sure that they are coming, maybe not this year, but the next year, but they are
 coming soon, okay?
 And the spiritual realm, and the spiritual realm is what really matters, because the
 real world is happening in the realm of spiritual, and there are no earthly ways to solve those
 spiritual problems.
 So some people think that, okay, if we sign peace treaty, or we provide better healthcare
 or something, okay, things are going to get better.
 Then we are worldly, if we think that that can solve the spiritual problem.
 But as Christians, we have to be concerned first and foremost about the spiritual struggle
 and warfare that's going on.
 And this is why the first thing that I wanted to share with you is my hope that we are not
 involved emotionally, we're not dragged into all those narratives that we hear every day
 in media, which are constantly trying to program us, okay?
 Think about this, the war, or taxes, tariffs, or whatever, just this, this, this what matters.
 We need to break away from that dependency and that emotional involvement in all those
 issues.
 Who is going to be the president?
 When he's going to do what he's going to do after coming into office?
 And these kind of things.
 We should not be drawn into that, okay?
 Yes, we know it's going on, but it's not something that is touching us so much, okay?
 So this is the first thing, the first thing that we need to do if we want to remain loyal
 to Christ.
 Because we're losing peace, if for us that matters a lot, then the peace that is coming
 from above would not matter.
 We would lose Christ in the midst of all that turmoil that is coming.
 So this is the first thing that I want to say before talking about some details.
 So the church is both on earth and in the heavens, it's uniting.
 On the cross, the Lord united and he brought to peace the earthly and the heavenly things.
 So we cannot avoid being part of the earthly reality, it's the things which are going on
 with us, with our families, with our friends, with our parish.
 And we need to be ready for challenges to come.
 I'm not a political or economic observer, to be sure.
 So today I'm not going to get into detailed analysis of some of those issues which are
 out there.
 But I want to indicate some of the things which might occur quite likely in this coming
 year or maybe within a couple of years, very soon.
 That we need to be ready because they have spiritual context, spiritual implications,
 I would say.
 It's not just a secular thing.
 What are those?
 First one thing is coming is the digital currencies.
 In Russia they've announced that they will introduce the digital currency widely on July
 the 1st, 2025.
 What is digital currency?
 You could do your research.
 Most of you know already what it means.
 How is this preparation for this New World Order, the new version of the New World Order,
 which will bring the humanity closer to this kingdom of Antichrist in any way.
 We need to be ready for that.
 This is something to watch out for.
 We don't want to become victims of this regime.
 One other remark.
 Basically, whatever crisis or whatever change would happen to this world, for us Christians
 it is the opportunity to do a better testimony of our loyalty to Christ.
 Let's face it this way.
 Because some people they are very pessimistic, they would think, "Oh, it's just Satan overcoming
 the humanity and it's all over, it's all done, and humans are accepting this, so it's all
 just going to hell, and we're all going to hell."
 This is a hairy section, because for us, for Christians, this is nothing more but another
 opportunity to testimony, to witness our love towards Christ, and to witness our faith,
 to witness our willingness to sacrifice things for Christ, and without these challenges we
 wouldn't have this opportunity, maybe we would have something else, but it would be different.
 I would tell you that if everything is peaceful and everything is fine, and everybody is sleeping
 spiritually and going to hell slowly, maybe it will be much more difficult to wake up,
 and it will be much more difficult to do testimony.
 This is just something for you to think, I'm not saying that the crisis and all these satanic
 agendas are fine, are good, are useful, no, but we as Christians have to take it as long
 as God allows such things to happen as the opportunity.
 And I would say that the last two tests we've failed, most of the people, most of the Christians,
 including Orthodox, maybe not so much, but also failed, I'm talking about the sickness
 and the war, the recent two big calamities that came on Earth, we've failed, okay, so
 the coming ones, if we are not faithful to Christ, if we don't become spiritually sound
 and strong, we will fail.
 If we don't learn how to rely upon Christ, we will fail also, we will become victims
 of this deceit that is coming upon the whole Earth, according to the prophecies.
 According to Saint Apostle Paul, who said in Thessalonians chapter 2 that the Lord will
 allow the spirit of deception to capture all the people on Earth, most of the people, we
 don't want to be among them.
 So that was the first thing to expect.
 The other thing to be ready for is the abolition, or not the abolition, but the prohibition
 of the canonical church in Ukraine, which has been announced, and now it's only five
 months left, so it's going to be implemented at the end of March, sorry, May, end of May
 2025.
 And this is a big thing, because it's a huge canonical Orthodox Church of Christ on the
 territory of Ukraine, and it will be forbidden, it will become illegal.
 What is going to happen exactly we don't know for sure, but these are serious things, that
 the devil is also planning, he's planning to do something about it, so we also need
 to pray strongly, and see how this evil plan is unfolding, or it's stopped, or what's going
 to happen, we'll see.
 Another thing that is coming in this upcoming year, with the big political change that has
 taken place this year, especially with the elections in the US and in most countries
 of the world, now we can expect big changes.
 What exactly is going to happen, it's hard to say for sure, will we have a war with Iran,
 US, Iran, or some conflict US and China, or something else in the Middle East, or we're
 going to have a global tariff, this breaking up of the whole economic system, we're going
 to have something like that, we'll see, but this is also something that will be coming,
 and it will pave the way for the Kingdom of Antichrist.
 We can be not so naive, I hope that people are not naive, that there are good guys, there
 are bad guys in the government, good guys are winning, or something like that, we need
 to be ready for the worst, and from the past we can say that the people who are implementing
 all these things are tools of the devil, let's put it this way, consciously, unconsciously,
 but they will do only as much as the Lord will allow them to do, we need to be sure
 about that, so nothing to worry too much.
 The fourth thing that we could be expecting would be anything, any tribulation, just be
 ready for that, I'm not trying to be apocalyptic here, but just be ready for whatever thing
 to come, be it hunger, poverty, nuclear war, I don't know, another big pandemic, much worse
 like Ebola or something like that, or it could be anything, technological shutdown, it could
 be anything, virus, computer virus going everywhere, electricity shutdown, something else, it could
 be anything, brothers and sisters, and we need to be ready for that, and we need to
 be loyal to Christ, and I will tell in a second what can we do to get ready for all these
 things, to be spiritually ready for that, because the devil, he wants your soul, it's
 much more important, your soul to him is more important than the whole world, so if you
 fail today or tomorrow or next year, that would be his victory, much more important
 than doing some economic crisis, let's say.
 Basically how they are working, these occultists, Satanists, if they cannot do it peacefully,
 they will do it through war, through crisis, breaking humanity, this is their method, so
 we need to be ready for that thing, and we need to be ready to do a better testimony
 of our love and dedication to Christ in such situations.
 There was a great book by one saint, Eugene Pozilanyan, he was writing in Russia, the
 book was written during the First World War, and it was called "In Quietness and in the
 Tempest", and it means that we need to be loyal to God, faithful to Him, no matter whether
 it's quiet times or tempest, turmoil, war, revolution, whatever, okay, so the heart of
 Christian should have peace, no matter what, no matter what are the news, no matter what
 is happening, going on with Christ, peace from above, this is something that for us
 is much more precious than anything else, because our hope, our comfort is not in this
 world, it's in that world, in the heavens, in Him, in our Lord.
 So I would summarize my advice for this upcoming year in five statements, five goals to set,
 I would advise to set these five goals, first, spiritual life, it must become the core of
 our life, Jesus prayer, the hesychasm, life in Christ, with Christ, this has to become
 the direction, the core, necessary, absolutely necessary part of our daily life. Okay, let's set
 this goal, brother systems. The second is a very active Eucharistic life. We need to be living from
 one Eucharist to the next Eucharist. Eucharist from Eucharist. Okay, Confession Eucharist.
 Confession Eucharist. Okay, this is for us in the center, and no matter what happens,
 everything is falling apart. Okay, just the whole world going nuts, going crazy, anything is happening,
 we are living from one Eucharist to the next Eucharist, from one Eucharist to the next Eucharist,
 and we will win. Okay, spiritually and physically we will win, and we will do the right testimony
 of our love and faith. The third is we need to cut all addictions, no matter it's a digital
 addiction or it's addiction to some habit, I don't know, watching movies, going for a walk,
 communicating with someone. Okay, any addiction, anything that we're dependent on, we have to break
 away, we have to depend only on Christ and become spiritually free. Okay, this is done through
 fasting, and whoever has tried to break away from these things knows how hard it is. It's much harder
 to do than to say, "May the Lord give us strength on this path." This is a big task, brothers and
 sisters, let's pay attention, great attention to fasting, killing, mortifying our old self
 on the cross, squeezing our wishes. Okay, I want to buy this, I want this, I want that. No, okay,
 restrict myself. Okay, I live not for that, I live for the Lord. The fourth, we need to seek
 strong spiritual people. Okay, we are not dependent on people, but it is important to
 have some, we are saved as a church, not just individually. When tough times come, we need to
 know, at least we need to communicate with people who are not nuts. If everybody goes nuts, we need
 to know some people who are not nuts, and we see that with the past two exams, the sickness and
 the war, most people failed, including Orthodox, including priests, including bishops, so you can
 check, have these people understood what happened. If until now they haven't realized the deceit,
 they will not be able to withstand what is coming next. So let us be ready for that, okay.
 Let us put this task, let us put this task of seeking such people, faithful priests,
 communities that can stay spiritual no matter what happens. And if mobile communications fail,
 everything fails, we know where they live, we can go, we can see them, we can help each other.
 This also is important. And the last, we would need to find or to get much more
 serious about the ministry that we do, active ministry to the Lord to bring fruits of faith
 every day. Okay, let's set this goal for the next upcoming year that every day that I leave,
 I have a feeling of bringing the fruits of my faith to the Lord, not just making money, feeding
 family, just regular things like everyone, like pagans, like muslims, they all do. But we have
 a special task to bring fruits of faith through ministry, through spiritual life,
 through changing, growing in virtue, but there must be this ministry and it has to be every day.
 Okay, because the Lord said that if this sycamore tree doesn't bring fruit, next year I will come
 and cut it. He wanted to do it this year, but he was persuaded to wait one more year. So,
 but next year if it doesn't bring fruit again, I'll cut it. So, this is the greatest lesson,
 I think for us, not the lesson, but the greatest reminder to us that we need to bring fruit.
 If we bring fruit, we are not cut by Christ, no matter what else happens. It doesn't matter
 if everything just collapses. We will not collapse, we will be with Christ.
 Okay, this link to true life will preserve us in faith, in truth, in holiness. This is the goal.
 Otherwise, he will cut us. In what way? Either it's going to be spiritual cutting or it will be
 that we will die, or something else, suffer, I don't know. But there will be this cutting going
 on, unless we rectify our life and begin bringing fruits of faith every day. Brothers and sisters,
 let us focus on these spiritual goals. Let us not have this relaxation and just joyful,
 you know, this new year celebration. Let us be ready for spiritual warfare. Let us be vigilant
 and study the word of God, become his soldiers and become better soldiers. Okay, we are already
 soldiers, become better soldiers and to overthrow every evil within, without. For us, this has to
 become much and much more, our self-awareness as ministers and warriors of Christ has to grow day
 by day. May the Lord give us such spiritual gifts, give us strength, give us wisdom, direction,
 guidance and make us victorious in whatever challenge is to come. Amen. God bless,
 brothers and sisters, and happy new year!
