 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas!
 The Holy Church celebrates Christmas on January 7th, and before Christmas we have five days
 of pre-celebration, from January 2nd to January 6th is the celebration, but not yet full.
 This is like expectation of the Lord's coming, the very intense expectation, in the same
 way as, say, Saturday is the expectation of this Sunday, you know, the day of rest, day
 of peace is the day of expecting and receiving the eternal day, the day of resurrection,
 the day of the kingdom to come.
 So in this sense, this is not like passion week, like strict strict fast, we are fasting
 but it's not very strict during these days.
 During these days, let us think deeply, what does it mean for us to have the Lord's coming?
 Because more often than not, it's misunderstood, and I will explain what are the misunderstandings
 and where are they coming from.
 Well, first of all, let us begin with the verse from Apostle Paul, it's Romans 13 verse
 11 to 12.
 Now you know, that now is the time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer
 than when we believed.
 The night is far spent, the day is at hand, let us therefore cast off the works of darkness,
 and let us put on the armor of light.
 The day is at hand, it's coming, it's near, it's beginning, we are now standing right
 in front of this day, because the day is Christ, His coming brings us Him.
 The most important is not that it brings peace to the world, some truth, something harmony,
 no, He Himself, He is the greatest good of everything, He is the good, He is the life,
 He is the salvation, it's not He brings salvation, no, He is salvation, so brothers and sisters,
 let us think deeply what does this mean.
 If we want to be children of light, if we want to be those who listen to what the Apostle
 Paul has said, well, you see, the world was in darkness, we see that the night is over
 and the day has come, what is this night?
 Because now, like we have this night all over, okay, inside us, okay, pretty much we are
 still in the night.
 Okay, before Christ coming, we had all these nations, they used to be in polytheism, okay,
 many gods, idolatry, idolatry slowly developed and became a pantheism, because everywhere
 is God, He emanates Himself, so these thinkers, they were thinking, thinking and they just
 dissolved God into this whole universe, okay, we're getting pantheism and from pantheism
 we get what? we get materialism, we get atheists, we get satanists, okay, this all comes from
 pantheism and even the Jews, okay, of course, the revelation itself that the Jewish people
 received, the righteous ones, they received this revelation is the revelation of the personal
 God, of the personal God with whom there is this dialogue and however, and it was unthinkable
 how can be one transcendent God and He also is personal and He can have one on one dialogue
 with you, that was unthinkable, this could come only through revelation and this revelation
 was given to the people of Jerusalem, of Israel, but the Lord when He comes, He says, He came
 to save the dead sons of Abraham, the dead sons and daughters of Israel, why are they
 dead? why are they dead? well, they are dead because of the alienation from God and where
 does this alienation come from? it comes from pantheism which came from Persia, it comes
 from deism which also came from Persia, okay, that God has created the world, yes, but He
 is outside, okay, on the daily basis we live as we live, we do just some rituals what we're
 supposed to do but God doesn't interfere with us, okay, because for 400 years there were
 no prophets, no real prophets, plenty of fake ones but no real ones, so the people of Israel,
 they were living under this great influence of deism, mammonism, which is basically atheism
 because there is no God present in what you do and the only God is money and wealth and
 some comfort, enjoyment, okay, that brought birth to Sadducees, to Herodians and that's
 why they were expecting this fake messiah and now we're coming to our times, all these
 different things they haven't gone away, they haven't gone away, so now we have two basic
 attitudes towards Christmas, one is people want Christmas but for wrong reason and another
 is that they don't want Christmas, okay, well those who don't want Christmas, that's outright
 atheists and satanists, okay, it could be other religions but they also usually boil
 down to pantheism, atheism, mammonism or satanism, okay, like Hinduism is pantheism and Buddhism
 is closer to human worship, okay, because the man can do everything himself, he doesn't
 need anything else and that's self-worshipping which brings to atheism and satanism also,
 okay, and so of course they don't want Christmas but those who do want Christmas, there are
 different phenomena, okay, well one phenomena is pantheism, okay, when Christians become
 pantheists and what do I mean by that, it can take different forms, okay, one form is
 occultism, pantheism in the form of occultism, it's a mystical night, there is something
 mystical about this night and, you know, some romantic things, some melodies here and there
 and the miracle will happen this night and things like that, what is this, this is occultism
 which is pantheism, okay, another attitude is mammonism, mammonism is also pantheism,
 okay, mammonism is more practical, okay, during this time I can go to vacation, enjoy my time,
 I can have a big party, celebrate, this and that, nice, I can either buy cheap stuff,
 so there will be sales, okay, I buy a lot of stuff or I sell stuff, I make money, I
 do business during this time, okay, or I just have rest, I have vacation during this time,
 okay, this is Christmas for me, this is pure mammonism, okay, I'm happy that it's Christmas
 because of these things and this is mammonism which is pantheism and of course it boils
 down eventually to satanism and human worshiping, okay, these things actually they are related,
 everything that's not true is intermixed, okay, we just can't say it's more of that
 or more of this but it's all intermixed and what else, it could be even polytheism,
 my polytheism because it's just one of the gods, so I worship, I don't know whom, on
 Halloween it's nice time, now I worship Jesus because it's Christmas, then it will be Chinese
 New Year, I will worship snake or something else, I will make wishes, I will do some gambling
 or something else, then I will worship something else, okay, Hanukkah or whatever, so this
 is polytheism, well pretty much ecumenism is polytheism and polytheism is also a form
 of pantheism, okay, and what else, okay, something more serious, most of heretics and unfortunately
 some of Orthodox, if they are serious about their faith, for them it could become TASEM,
 Christmas becomes TASEM, because they are tastes, what do I mean by that, we celebrate
 Christmas because we're supposed to celebrate, okay, it's like why do we obey commandments,
 because we are supposed to obey, God created the world at some point, gave Moses some laws
 at some point and now he's there and we are here, we're just supposed to do what we're
 supposed to do, okay, but there is no link, okay, it's not him who comes to me now, I
 celebrate because I have joy of union with Christ who is born, no, it's because I'm supposed
 to celebrate Christmas at this time, okay, we have tradition, we have decorations in
 the church, we have special prayers, this is what we're supposed to do on this time,
 so let us do it and that's it, this Pharisee spirit, okay, or this rationalist theologian
 spirit, okay, you can call it whatever, but it's TASEM, okay, and TASEM is also basically
 a Jewish thing, I mean the perversion of the Old Testament faith. So, do we want to be
 like that? Is Christmas just that? Let us think deeply, brothers and sisters. There
 is also one possibility which I've mentioned, that we perceive Christ, that he came to this
 world and he brought some goodies, he brought peace and harmony, he brought some truths,
 some special way of salvation, he brought some stuff to us and now we have this stuff
 and that's why we're happy. All this understanding is not much different from the Jews who were
 waiting for Antichrist, in the time of Christ they were expecting Antichrist, don't make
 mistakes, brothers and sisters, this is what they were expecting and that's why they've
 killed Jesus, because they were expecting someone who will just arrange everything,
 he will make their life pleasant, happy, he'll give them influence, power, whatever, health,
 he will solve their earthly problems and very often now this is what we are expecting, this
 is what we are feeling when we are thinking about Christmas and we're just remaining
 Jews of those days, the ones who rejected Christ. So let us be aware of all these spiritual
 fallacies, brothers and sisters. For us, Christ by himself is the good, the highest good and
 we are not expecting anything else, that he will bring something else to us for us, but
 he brings himself and we don't have some wishes, all my wishes that this year the Lord
 will give me this, this, this, I pray that he will allow this and this to happen, this
 and this not to happen, okay? The pagans are asking for that, all these deists, these mammonists
 are asking for those things, but for us, God himself, we love him, we love personally Jesus
 and this time he himself comes to this world and this is what we celebrate, this is what
 we're happy about and don't be scared that we are living in the spiritual desert, okay?
 That the people around us, they have either this fake false understanding or they don't
 want Christmas and they call themselves Christians, well, it's a spiritual desert, brothers and
 sisters don't have too much expectations that the whole world will be spiritual and will
 love Jesus Christ. It's time for us to wake up as the apostle Paul is saying, the day
 is coming, wake up, we need to wake up spiritually, we need to ask him to open up our dead and
 blind heart to see him and to receive this joy and to crave for him only, to find peace
 only in him. May the joy of Christmas, may the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ who
 is born to this world be with you, dear brothers and sisters. His birth is breaking these days,
 it's not that he was born at some point and so what? This is just historical event, no,
 he came and he is with us and we are in him and this is the greatest joy. May this be
 so and may the joy of the Lord who came to this world and is in this Lord with us, in
 us, be, always, and be. Merry Christmas brothers and sisters.
