 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to share with you not the official Church teaching,
 but some guesses, some thoughts on the revelation.
 It is fine to have some unique findings, some applications of the Holy Scripture to your
 own life to the situation in the world.
 And even though this is my reading of some parts of Revelation, it is not based just
 on my subjective feelings or ideas.
 Of course, the methods and conceptions which I will be using, they have been used by other
 thinkers and researchers and theologians, Orthodox theologians, who were also deeply
 thinking, researching different interpretations of the Revelation applications, and this is
 all part of this big tradition.
 However, these particular insights or applications are not official.
 They are, you just take from them as much as you find useful.
 You don't have to receive them as the truth, because this is how the Revelation was written.
 The Revelation is written so that everyone, according to his experience, his spiritual
 life, he can uncover as much as he should uncover at this time.
 Okay, no more, no less.
 So please don't take it too critically, what I will be saying.
 This is just something to think about, to ponder about.
 As long as we can find something useful, I think then it reaches its purpose.
 So, to understand what I will be saying, first I want to introduce the idea of the seven
 churches which Revelation has in chapters 2 and 3, as the seven indicating seven periods
 in church history.
 Of course, it can be indicating different degrees, different situations of the same
 church in the same period, or different churches in the same period, or your particular parish
 may be more relevant to one of those churches.
 We have seven, you could say, archetypes that exist, but it works quite well.
 If we superimpose these seven archetypes on the whole church history, and even if it's
 wrong, it doesn't matter, it's not a big deal, just something to consider.
 So, according to this reading, I will not be talking about every period now, because
 it will take us, I don't know, many hours, I will just express my feelings that we are
 now at the end of the sixth period and entering into the seventh period, the Laodicean period.
 The sixth is Philadelphian, the seventh is Laodicean, and it's not a good period.
 The Philadelphian period was spiritually much better than the Laodicean period.
 And this doesn't mean that everything in the church will be bad, no.
 Whatever paradigm becomes predominant in certain time period of the church history, it doesn't
 determine everyone, everything, etc.
 The Holy Spirit is guiding the church from the beginning, from when the Lord ascended
 and sent his disciples, and they received the Holy Spirit until the end of the world.
 The Holy Spirit is guiding the church.
 And when he is criticized, the Lord is criticizing the church, it means that he loves the church
 and he wants her to change.
 And when somebody falls away, it's not a church anymore.
 So what we are talking here is the Orthodox Church, we are talking about the Orthodox
 Church here, which is the Church of Christ.
 We reject this adulterous spirit of ecumenism, and we understand and we see that, unfortunately,
 the members of different groups, which call themselves Christian, heretic groups, don't
 have the grace of the Lord.
 They have fallen out, and we hope they will come back.
 So now, let us just go directly, well, first I'll say a few words about the sixth period,
 the Philadelphian.
 Philadelphian Church, it is quite weak externally and in the amount of things it can do, but
 spiritually it is very strong.
 It became quite weak after the fall of all the Orthodox empires and after the whole world
 went into secularism, post-Christianity.
 So no matter where the Orthodox Christians are, they will be now coming to the church
 only if they are really motivated.
 It's a free choice.
 It's not because of just the cultural tradition or some privileges.
 That was the previous part of the Church of Sardis, and we still have some traces of that
 left.
 However, now after all the revolutions, all the secular movement and everything else,
 pretty much almost everywhere you'll see the people who are coming every Sunday to the
 church would be coming because they understand what they're doing, not because of other reasons,
 and it will be few to be sure.
 Even though there are few, they have great charisma and many will be invited and converted
 to the church, including the Jews, not all of them, but those who are seeking for truth.
 During the Philadelphian period, the true Israel, not the synagogue of Satan, which
 will remain the synagogue of Satan till the end, but the true Israel, those Jews who are
 really seeking the truth, they will enter the Church of Christ during this Philadelphian
 period, and that is what was going on during the 20th century until now.
 But that's another topic.
 Now let us see what is coming, what is now coming with the Laodicean church.
 And of course this transition, it doesn't happen overnight, like you cannot really say
 when was in the secular history, when was the end of the Middle Ages, which date, and
 when was the beginning of modernity, or postmodernism, you cannot find the exact date.
 So the same works here, we cannot find the exact date when the church came from the previous
 period to the next one.
 But there is, now we are somewhere in the middle, in the transition, in my feeling,
 you can have different thoughts on that.
 So what is coming with this Laodicean church?
 Let us directly look into Revelation, the book of Revelation, chapter 3, 14 to 22, and
 I will be commenting as I read.
 And unto the angel of the church of Laodiceans write,
 These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation
 of God.
 I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot.
 I would thou wert cold or hot.
 So then, because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth.
 This is scolding, scolding this church.
 What does this mean?
 Of course, it has a lot of meaning, but basically, this spirit of, we don't care about anything.
 As long as we can run, we have services, we have financing, we have support from, I don't
 know, donors, government, whatever, everything runs, that's the purpose.
 When there is injustice, we don't care.
 When there is some harmful trends, ecumenism, we don't care.
 There is, okay, say, one priest, he is an ecumenist, liberalist, that's okay, as long
 as he is with us.
 Whether he is conservative, zealot, we don't care, as long as he is with us.
 This, what you call it, the sickness that became in 2020.
 You need to do this, you need to do this, you need to do many things.
 We don't care.
 Oh, we're supposed to do this, how?
 Okay, let's do this.
 Then we have the war in 2022 and what the media says, media says these are bad guys
 and these are good guys, yes, these are bad guys, these are good guys.
 Or in another place, media says exact opposite, okay, let it be like that, okay, whatever
 you want.
 As long as we have the financing, we have all the activities going and okay, it's just
 going, okay, that's the thing, okay.
 This is not cold, not hot, brothers and sisters, because the gospel says blessed are thee if
 you are persecuted for the righteousness sake, you are keeping, you are holding on to the
 righteousness of Christ and you can, because of that, you can criticize, be it the government,
 be it the society, be it whatever.
 You as a church, you come out and criticize and say this is evil.
 Do you hear a lot of that?
 Not much, almost none.
 Well, there is, as long as it's in line with the propaganda, if propaganda says those are
 bad guys, of course, then we also say yes, they are bad guys, the sodomites and something
 else, whatever.
 If the propaganda says the opposite, well, we keep silent, okay, or we even support that.
 So God doesn't need such a church, he said I will spit you out.
 If you keep being like that, I will spit you out, but now I criticize you because I love
 you, we will see, I have hope in you that you will change, you will repent, and he is
 telling what to do, okay.
 So keep going, verse 18, I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire that thou
 mayest be rich, and white raiment that thou mayest be clothed, what is that?
 The gold tried with fire, those are the saints, it's the people or the, I don't know, the
 movements within the church, okay, that are tried with fire, they have remained faithful
 to the truth, and it says, okay, now you, as a whole, you know, church, you value those,
 you find a way, you find a way to make them part of you, so that you can become rich,
 that you can, okay, there is a purpose of your existence, and they can change everything
 about you, if you value such people, such people, such traditions, such, I don't know,
 publications, such methods of spiritual life, I don't know, the holy monasteries that are
 true monasteries, okay, it could be, it could be many things, okay, white clothes, the pure,
 the truly pure in heart, those people you have to be seeking after, they will cover
 your nakedness, and anoint thine eyes with eye-slave, eye-self, that thou mayest see,
 anoint thy eyes, what does that mean?
 Do spiritual life, Jesus' prayer, hesychasm, fight with passions, okay, chastity, okay,
 do this, and you will gain sight, otherwise you're finished.
 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore, and repent, so he has
 hope in this church, despite all these problems, behold, I stand at the door and knock, if
 any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him,
 and he with me.
 The Lord is standing and knocking into the hearts of those within the church, okay, so
 this means that, okay, we enter the Orthodox Church, it's not enough, don't think anything
 is guaranteed now, it's now the beginning of the journey, and you have to be looking
 for the truth, with all your ability, every day, and open up your heart to the Lord, to
 change you, to change the way you think, the way you live, everything about your life and
 heart, and then you will find Christ, and he will come and sup.
 Don't think that just having baptismal certificate will give you some guarantee of salvation.
 No, it says no, you can just stop on the superficial level of the Laodicean Church, and that will
 be your end, if you don't go one step ahead, not one step, but if you don't hear the voice
 of Jesus Christ, the life God, "To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in
 my throne, even as I also overcame, and am sat down with my Father in his throne.
 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."
 So within this period, in this Laodicean Church, there will be those who overcome, who are
 the enemy, those who overthrow the enemy, there will be such people, don't make mistakes,
 and you have to be among them, we have to be among them, brothers and sisters.
 So let us prepare for this spiritual struggle, let us be ready that maybe, you know, like
 in university, most people don't want to study, but if you do want to study, you can study
 well and become a great mathematician, scientist, or whatever.
 So don't think that, okay, the overall spirit is lacking, so I don't know, this is still
 the right place to be and to study, there is no better place, everything else is fake,
 any other so-called church is fake, here you can, you can reach, you can gain the grace
 of the Lord, and you can be among them who are winning and overcoming.
 During this time, when we celebrate Christmas, brothers and sisters, let us ask the Lord
 to wake us up, to give us heart which is alive, which is seeking, which is throwing away everything
 that is against the love of Christ, against holiness, against chastity, against truth,
 against righteousness, and with such heart, with such aim, we can be among those who are
 winning, we will be victorious with Christ, and we will sit in his throne together with
 him on the right hand of God the Father.
 Amen.
 May this be so, and Merry Christmas, brothers and sisters.
 Amen.
