 Dear brothers and sisters, on January 19th the Holy Church celebrates Epiphany, or baptism, of the Lord.
 We begin this celebration on January 18th, and it will be all the way until January 27th, you see, for 10 days.
 Why is this so important? In the early Church, Epiphany was more important than Crisps.
 It actually contained Christmas in itself, and only later the two feasts were separate.
 And even until now, one flows into another. You see, we celebrate Christmas all the way until January 17th,
 and on the 18th, on the next day, we begin celebrating Epiphany. What is uniting these two feasts?
 And how is baptism of Christ related to us? Why is it significant? Why it was so important in the early Church?
 Let us come one by one to answer this question, so that we have a really deep feeling and appreciation of this great celebration,
 of this great event that happened, its significance. Well, first of all, let us read how this happened.
 We read Matthew 3, 13-15. "Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him.
 But John forbade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?
 And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness.
 Then he suffered him." Suffered means allowed, right? So, to fulfill all righteousness, or to complete,
 to accomplish all truth, all righteousness. What does this mean? What righteousness?
 This is very important, brothers and sisters, okay? We see our Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God,
 He came and He receives baptism from a man, John the Baptist, okay? There is some problem here,
 and this is why John himself, he didn't want him to allow him to be baptized, okay?
 Well, first, what is this righteousness? The righteousness is the law of God. When you,
 when you are in line with the law of God, you are righteous, okay?
 The Lord Himself, He was sinless, okay? He was sinless, so He fulfilled every commandment.
 He completed, He satisfied every commandment of the law, and now He needs to be verified.
 The baptism of John was a method of proving that now this man is righteous. He has abandoned the
 way of sin, and now has stand on the path of righteousness. So, He is in line with righteousness,
 now after forfeiting, after repenting His sins. So, all the people who have sins, they came,
 they repented, and only after that they have this baptism. But the Lord, He didn't have any sins,
 and He gained this proof of that through baptism in the Jordan, okay? I hope this makes sense.
 So, this was, you can call it the last commandment that He had to fulfill to show that this is
 the right baptism, but this is later, okay? So, this was the truth, okay? Accomplishing all
 righteousness had to be sealed by accomplishing this right of baptism in the Jordan from John,
 okay? By doing that, by doing that, He also is blessing or He is approving what John is doing,
 okay? That John is baptizing, He is not a fake prophet, He is not, I don't know, some sectarian
 heretic. So, the Lord says, "I approve of what John is doing." So, this is the second reason,
 okay? And also, by doing that, He proves that to know Messiah, you have to come to Him through
 repentance, through John the Baptist. So, when they asked if you are Messiah, He said, "Well,
 first tell me about John the Baptist. If he is from the heavens or he is from earth, who is John the
 Baptist?" And they said, "We don't know." Well, then I also don't tell you, okay? Because that
 was the prerequisite. If you repent, you receive the baptism of John, you perceive him as the true
 prophet of God, and you come and you know Messiah and you follow the way of Messiah, okay? So,
 repentance is the only way to Christ, there is no other way, no other magic way around it,
 only through forfeiting your sins, repenting, turning to God and following Him, okay?
 Then the third, the third important part, the third is normally you come to be washed and
 sanctified by baptism. But in the case of Jesus, it was He was baptized to wash the whole humankind,
 who everyone who will be baptized in future, okay? He blessed these waters and He approved this for
 the means of our baptism, of the church baptism to come. So, He is blessing the sacrament of baptism
 by baptizing, being baptized Himself, okay? And also, we see that this is sacrament because the
 Holy Spirit is coming down upon Him. When He is baptized, He comes out from the waters,
 this Holy Spirit comes down from Him. What does this mean? This means that also everyone who will
 be baptized in future will be baptized, will receive the Holy Spirit. So, we can see this is
 of great importance, brothers and sisters, because all the Protestants, all these heretics, they
 reject that this is a sacrament, almost all, some of them they don't, but most, almost all.
 But the Lord Himself said that whoever is not reborn through water and the Spirit,
 He will not be saved, for the Holy Spirit is giving you this birth in baptism. And John himself
 was prophesizing, saying that I am baptizing you with water, in water, but there will be one who
 comes and he will baptize you with the Spirit and fire. With the Spirit, the Lord will be baptizing
 us with the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, and we see this on the baptism of the Lord. So, this is also
 an important thing to see, okay? So, it's for us, or not for Him, He is doing this, He is baptized.
 This is a paradox. And also, the fourth, the fourth, John is not allowing Him. First, he is
 prohibiting. People know that John is prophet, so by saying I cannot do it, I'm not worthy,
 he is saying that he knows he doesn't need repentance, he doesn't have any sin, and this is
 said publicly by John in front of all the people. So, this is a public confirmation that he is
 Messiah, the Son of God. So, he's doing this also to make this statement, and from this, from now on,
 his public ministry will begin. So, this is the fourth. We read about this in John 1 31,
 okay, that he will be revealed to Israel, he came to be revealed to Israel, okay? And this brings us
 to the last point, the last point, the last point is related to this. You see, in the Old Testament,
 to become a priest you had to be 30 years old, at least, to be mature enough. And,
 and you would need to be cleansed before, okay, before becoming a priest you go through a rite
 with this baptism. And also, before offering sacrifice, every priest had to be, again,
 going into this nikvah to be cleansed, to be prepared, okay, for something that belongs to God,
 that completely is belonging to God. So now, and, and also the sacrifice itself had to be cleaned,
 had to be washed in order to be sacrificed to the Lord. So now, the Lord is 30 years old, okay?
 The Lord already, humanity is mature enough, he went through all the experience of these stages
 of growth, childhood, youth. He is now ready for, to accomplish the mission, the mission of
 taking upon himself all the sins of the world. And he is doing it through sacrificing himself.
 So he is becoming a priest, he is taking upon himself this ministry of a priest, and this role
 of the sacrifice, he himself becomes this lamb of the God to be sacrificed, okay? So he is doing it
 through undergoing this baptism. So we can see that there is a great meaning, great importance
 of what has happened, what was accomplished by the Lord in the baptism. And this brings us back
 to this question of how is this related to his birth, is directly related. His birth is great
 humbleness, he humbles himself. God himself humbles himself to become this man, limited by body, by
 all the human abilities. And now he is again on baptism, he is humbling himself by obedience to
 the law, okay? He is abiding to the law of God. And this is why there is this voice from God,
 this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased, he abides my law fully, totally, my approval upon
 him. So this obedience to the law is shown, is manifested in this baptism. And this is why it's
 related directly to his birth. And this is also directly related to his death, because the utmost
 humbleness will be displayed on the cross, okay? Through his suffering, Golgotha and death. And
 this is why we are baptized in his death, okay? We are being baptized in the death of Jesus Christ.
 So we see this birth, baptism and death of Christ have this innate relationship. They are linked
 all together, and they are linked directly to our baptism. In our baptism this is what is happening,
 this power of the passions of Christ, of the cross, is making us dead for sin, for flesh,
 for this world, and alive for Christ and the kingdom of heaven. And this is all accomplished
 or manifested in baptism. This also why it's called Epiphany, this revelation of this great
 project of Christ, not only a revelation of the Holy Trinity, but also a revelation of the project
 of Christ. And the Holy Trinity is revealing himself upon this, and the voice of God the Father
 comes from the heavens. The heavens are tearing apart, people can see it, okay? At least John the
 baptism could see it, and probably other apostles, that's why they wrote it. And the voice of the
 Father was coming down, and this is my beloved son, obey him, listen to his word, and Holy Spirit
 coming down upon him. The Holy Trinity is manifesting himself, the Son of God, the Son
 is being baptized. So brothers and sisters, let us think deeply about these things.
 Our baptism is essential to our salvation. The baptism is also related to these symbols,
 the Lord is telling us these symbols. For example, the fan, Matthew 3 12, whose fan is in his hand,
 and he will thoroughly purge his floor and gather his wheat into the corner, but he will burn up
 the shaft with unquenchable fire. The baptism is also something that is separating, like this fan
 is using, separating people. We live in baptism, our whole spiritual life is continuation of our
 baptism, okay? We are being born for the Kingdom of Heaven, it's a process, okay? Also the fire,
 the fire, everything that is light and not relevant, it will be burnt away, and only the
 precious and important will remain fire. The axe, the axe, the axe is casting out all these corrupted
 and filthy parts of the body, and the souls which are corrupted, which are not willing to be healed,
 they will be cast away. So this baptism is also bringing this notion of this axe, and also
 the sword, the sword through word, through word the sword is cutting
 apart what is bad and what is good, okay? So this is all
 related, this all inherent to the sacrament of baptism. Related to the truth, I forgot to say
 one thing. Why is this righteousness? Why does he need this seal? Basically because he takes upon
 himself the whole humanity, and humanity after Adam is under curse, okay? And to remove that curse
 he needs to be baptized. He participates in the whole of humanity, he is one of us, he represents
 the whole humanity. So he is also removing this curse, okay? So he fulfills the law by his way
 of life, by his ministry, by his life, by keeping the commandments. He is sealed, he is
 relieved of this curse, so now he is the pleasing to God, he's the one who is pleasing to God, there
 is no curse anymore hanging there, and now he is coming to liberate everyone, to liberate everyone
 also, to be in the hairs of this kingdom which is now open, the heavens are
 tearing apart, the kingdom of God is open. This is the life that the Lord is inviting us to go to.
 May we be children of this life, dear brothers and sisters. Let us pray that on these days
 of epiphany we become worthy children of our heavenly Father, and what we do, what we think,
 what we say is pleasing to God the Father, and Jesus Christ is living in us, he is born in our
 hearts. This is the accomplishment of what he brought to life, to this world in
 nativity, in Christmas. So I hope now, brothers and sisters, you see this deep link between nativity
 and the baptism and death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. May the Lord's blessing be
 upon all of us. Christmas is also called the winter past, winter past, there is deep relationship
 of nativity with Pascha, so let us be joyful during these days, let us be washed, be cleansed,
 let us renew in our baptism, in the grace of the baptism that we received, that we do always through
 confession and through receiving the holy Eucharist, may the Lord keep us in his holiness,
 I mean merry epiphany, brothers and sisters.
