 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to say about what it means to be sons of light and how this is fundamentally different from any kind of enlightenment, awakening, revelation, that is preached by this secular or sectarian world.
 Because we live in an agnostic world, the whole mass culture, it's all about mass education, mass media, mass information, as though you receive some enlightenment.
 And people become very proud because they think that they are enlightened, that they understand everything, they know everything.
 And you have this fake feeling of knowing everything.
 And of course this comes in stages, one of the big stages is reformation, when everyone became the measure of truth, the way you interpret the Bible, that's what is true, what is true for you.
 And then modernity and all other things that we have.
 And this is all fundamentally different from the real enlightenment.
 And today I want to say what that means and how to distinguish, how to feel where is true light and where is fake light.
 And the Lord himself said that if the light which is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness.
 Because already in those days, 2000 years ago, it was already evident that there is some kind of demonic delusion, making people feel that they are enlightened, like all those scribes and Pharisees, learned men, but who were deeply in darkness.
 They were not receiving Christ, they were not willing to submit themselves, surrender their prowess to the true light of Christ.
 Apostle John is emphasizing light, he tells us in the first chapter we read that John the Baptist, he said, I'm not the true light, the true light is coming, and that true light is shining in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
 This is very mysterious language because usually you have either darkness or you have light. If there is light, there is no darkness. If there is darkness, there is no light, but here the light is in darkness.
 So darkness is still there, but the darkness did not overtake it.
 So this mysterious light that shines in this darkness is the light of our Lord, and the Apostle Paul in John, sorry, Apostle John in John 12 36 tells us, believe in light and you will become children of light.
 So the first step to become children of light is to believe in Jesus Christ, that he is the Lord, he is the Savior, and become his follower.
 So whenever there is anything else that is not in line with that, be it Buddhism, be it Hinduism, be it New Age, be it secular enlightenment, Rousseau, you know, all those encyclopedists who gave this modern Francis Bacon, whatever this Masonic, all this stuff.
 This is all darkness. This is all demonic delusion, because demon, the devil himself can appear as an angel of light. We also read it in the gospel, in the Bible.
 And how to distinguish this? Let's go step by step.
 Christians from ancient times, they were praying in darkness, during the night. They prayed during the day, but the prayer at night had a special intensity.
 That prayer was divided in several stages. The first prayer would be during the twilight, or right after dinner, maybe around six.
 And this prayer, now we have vespers. This is where vespers came from. And during the vespers there is a light which is carried to the center of the church, and that light represents Christ.
 And that light represents every one of us who became lights, as Christ himself is the light. And you cannot hide the light under a bucket or under a bed, but you put it on the lampstand.
 This is talking about Christ and talking about every one of us who become his followers, who can live our faith, and bring the fruits of light.
 We'll talk about that in a second. The fruits of spirit are the fruits of light. Ephesians 5-9.
 So, we are with the light. First of all, this world is created. There is day and there is night. And Christians, they understand and they understood that this is symbolic.
 The whole created world is just some symbology revealing to us something about God, some spiritual truths.
 This world is not absolute. It's not that we are pagans and we are following the sun. Where is the sun? We have prayers and different hours because of the sun and during the year we have different zodiac, different Capricorn or something else.
 And this is why it's so important. No, this is all paganism. We don't worship this nature. We understand that this nature is just a parable about the kingdom of heaven and the Lord's revelation.
 He is giving us some message through the structure of this world and including this division to the light and darkness. And in the age to come, in the day of the Lord, there will be no night.
 We read about this Revelation 22 5. There will be no light, no night, no darkness. So, for the Lord, He is light and we are waiting for the day of the Lord. We don't wait for the night of the Lord.
 So, absolute is the light, the spiritual light. And the light that we have here in this physical world is just a symbol of that light. And the darkness that we have here in the world is the symbol of this apostasy, which is followed by majority of people.
 And, if you will, the night in this world represents the whole age of this world. In the prayers, we have such words that let me go through the night of this age.
 So, the whole life that we are facing in this physical world is night, spiritually. But this night is for most people. This is the darkness that we read in the Gospel of John. It is the whole of this world.
 And only those who receive Christ, they are already children of the light, which is revealed by God. When the heavens were torn apart, a few videos ago, I was talking about this.
 So, the Lord said, "In the way, I am not the Lord, the angels." They said on the ascension that He will come in the same way as He was raised.
 During this separation between His rising to the heavens and His coming down on the second coming, this, for the majority of people, for the whole world, the Lord will be concealed. They won't see Him evidently.
 It is only through the faith that we encounter and we open up. The kingdom of heavens is opening up for us to embrace.
 Just recently, I had a dialogue with one atheist in China, and it was a great sadness. He shared with me, "I don't know. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't have this experience. I'm not understanding. I'm atheist. I live all my life."
 He's like 60 years old. The whole life is materialistic and the gate is just closed for him. He was trying to understand, but you cannot explain it with words.
 But we have this experience. The Lord called us to His light, and we received the light, and we are on the path of becoming more and more children of this light.
 During the night, coming back to the night prayer, we pray during the night first because we are children of the true light, and we stay with the light despite the whole world going into darkness, into sleep.
 Also, we are expecting the light to come from the east. The east represents Christ and salvation and light. We possess the light, and the more we possess Christ and His light, the more we are craving for the light to be manifest, to be full, to receive it in the fuller way.
 This is a paradox. The more we have light, the more we want this light, and the more we are in apostasy, the more we don't feel it, we don't know what it is, and we don't really want it. We're not seeking for it.
 So this is why to whom it is given will be given even more, and to whom it's not given, even what he has will be taken away from him.
 And at the same time, the Babylon, this anti-church, this spirit of this world, this kainite, this spirit of enmity towards God, is bringing its substitute for the light.
 And this substitute for the light, it can take different shapes and forms. It can be in the form of liberalism. We're enlightened, so it's liberal, okay, do whatever you want.
 It can be in the sense of some Masonic occultist, Kabbalist nonsense, okay, New Age and other revelations, fake revelations, and even in the form of fake Christianity like Protestantism and Catholicism.
 Okay, so this, so with Catholicism, whatever is from the Vatican is the light, okay, encyclical of the Pope, or whatever, oh, this is the light, this is the revelation.
 Okay, they have this Pope substitute. For the Protestants, there are all kinds of, it could be either rationalistic, or it could be more charismatic, or whatever, they bring some substitutes of light.
 Okay, so usually, the more diplomas you have, the more enlightened you are in Protestantism, okay, but it's just a worldly version.
 Okay, it's just a fake version of Christianity, it's just covering the worldly spirit with the words of being Christian, but it's not.
 So this Babylon is bringing its own substitute, and even on the physical level, okay, so we can say there are two types of darkness. One type of darkness is ignorance, okay, it's when you are really, you know, uneducated, or you're driven only by your passion, your carnal life.
 Okay, you are asleep, you know, and you basically, you are completely devolving, okay, indulging yourself in this worldly life.
 But there is another, so during the night, you will fall asleep, okay, the darkness came, you just go fall asleep, because this is all you can do. But the substitute, this is another form of darkness which is much more intricate, and much more sophisticated, and much more dangerous.
 This fake light is when it seems that you have light. So the Babylon likes to have all kinds of illumination during the night, okay, you look at the photo from the space on those more developed, more civilized countries or places, and it will be much more lighter.
 Most people like to overcome darkness by just illumination, okay, in the big cities, many, many, a lot of lights, lightning, and in the houses, okay, in the different cafeteria.
 Remember that rich man who was brightly celebrating every day, he had a lot of lamps in his house, okay, but that was just a substitute, just trying to run away from the reality that you are in darkness, and you are using some artificial ways to overthrow this darkness.
 But this makes you slip into even greater darkness, okay.
 The true light is always related to deep repentance.
 It's always related to willing to change yourself. It is completely selfless, okay, there is no selfishness, there is no vainglory, glorification of yourself, because the more you possess the light, the more glory of God is coming down upon your life.
 But you will see that it's not yours, that it's not something that is coming from you, this person, but you are just a servant, you're just a transmitter, you're like the moon, which just reflects the light of the sun, and there is nothing to be proud of about it.
 So, the true life brings peace. You don't have to be worried, because it's not in your power. It brings joy.
 We saw that in the Proverbs 15.30 that enlightened eyes bring joy to the heart. So, if you feel that this day you've lived and you didn't have this joy of being with God, with Christ, that means that you are still deprived of this light.
 And the Babylon will give you a substitute, fake joy, fake happiness about, I don't know, possessing something, purchasing something, reading something, some wise thing, or something else.
 It will try to bring you some kind of substitute, happiness, but you will not have the true joy. Your life, your heart will be weeping, and you will be just like this morphine, or like a drug, you will be addicted more and more to that.
 This is why it's so difficult to change some habits, like, I don't know, watching some movies, or playing games, or something else, because that is the substitute, happiness, that is coming.
 And that is diverting you from the true joy of the truth and righteousness, and the light coming from Christ himself.
 So, we need to be more and more aware of where are we today? Am I with the light? The more we will be aware of that, the more we will be aware of what is not light.
 How this world is in the darkness, how this world is in this fake comfort, this completely crazy delusion, and especially those who think that they are with the light, but they don't have Christ.
 They don't have the true Christ, including the Protestants and Catholics who don't have Christ, and who are living in this self-deception.
 May the Lord keep us awake, vigilant, make us go through the night of this life, and make us true servants and witnesses of his light.
 Make us these lamps that cannot be put under a bucket or under bed, but they have to be put on the lamps they stand to shine everyone in the house.
 May the Lord give us such blessing, strengthen us on this path, and give us the joy of his salvation.
 Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.
