 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord said that "believe in light so that you can become
 the sons of light".
 This is Gospel of John chapter 12.
 Last time we spoke about how Christians are called to become the sons of light, and unless
 we become sons of light, we are not Christians.
 And today I want to continue this topic, especially now that we are beginning to prepare for the
 Great Land.
 We still have three weeks of preparation, and in preparing for this land I want to share
 with you some of my thoughts about the world that we live in, in this context of the darkness
 that is trying to overcome this world, what's happening, and what is our role, our role
 as those who are called to become these sons of light, these lamps, if you will, through
 which the Lord is shining upon this world.
 Well, from the Holy Fathers we know that the evil, the darkness, the devil, they will stumble
 upon truth.
 For them the light and the goodness that comes from God is the greatest obstacle.
 This is why they are called satan, they are against it, but they are against in their
 vanity.
 They cannot do anything.
 If you compare the power of God and quote-unquote power of devil, devil is nothing, it's just
 nothing.
 He is unable to do anything whatsoever directly against God, or his light or darkness or grace,
 however you want to put it.
 As long as we are partakers of his grace, his light, his goodness, for us any darkness,
 any sin, any evil power is nothing, it's completely nothing.
 So very often he is trying to portray himself as though he is almighty and omnipresent,
 and the evil in this world is so great that it's over, that he has conquered this world.
 But when we encounter evil, very often it is just a matter of poking it with your finger,
 use this parable, you poke it and it's collapsing.
 At least spiritually this is the case.
 He is trying to use some forces, economic, political, surveillance, but all of that for
 us would be nothing if we are spiritually free.
 You are spiritually free, you could be in the concentration camp, you could be anywhere
 in the prison, you will be much closer to God and you will have much greater testimony
 for the Lord if you would be in such circumstances.
 For him that will be a loss, he will be conquered.
 Even though it seems to be that he has the prison, he has the guards, he has all the
 control over you, he has nothing, he is just helping you to bring a better testimony.
 We should bear this in mind when we are talking about these evil things.
 And now I want to share with you some thoughts that I have about the world that we live in
 that is now shaking a lot politically, economically, in many ways war, and maybe we will have more
 of that coming, and why is this happening and what is the idea or the aim of the devil
 behind all these things.
 There is evidently some relationship between these two things.
 What is this relationship?
 Well, it is not that easy to understand the plan of the devil, because basically he does
 not have a plan.
 Devil himself, he is very self-contradictory, and this is why he fails, he fails for so
 long, now it is 2000 years that have passed after the Lord's resurrection, ascension,
 and he has been losing all these 2000 years, big time.
 He was unable, he is until now unable to bring his Antichrist, to rule all the world, and
 to bring all the nations under his spiritual leadership.
 Well, why is this so?
 If you think about it, all his ideas are self-contradictory, all his plans.
 For example, I just bring you some examples from real life.
 From one hand, on the one hand he wants people to be rich, so that they can be indulging
 in all kinds of pleasures, mammon, materialism, etc.
 On the other hand, he wants people to be poor, so that they are more dependent, more controllable,
 afraid of everything, so he does not know, here maybe rich, or maybe poor, or maybe whatever.
 He wants them to be fed with all kinds of things, or he wants them to be hungry, etc.
 He wants peace, so that everybody is relaxed, and everybody is in the same, or he wants
 war, that people are suffering, killing each other.
 He has all kinds of antinomies built in his existence.
 His existence itself is an antinomy, this is a theological issue, that he has to give
 thanks for the Lord, for his existence, because his existence is due to the creating power
 of God and his mercy.
 But at the same time, he hates God, and he tries to run away, and he tries to overthrow
 his dominion over this world, so he is self-contradictory in his very existence.
 You can even think about what is his final goal.
 His final goal is what?
 Going to Guyana, because that is the final outcome of everything he does.
 Avadon is destruction, uttermost destruction, corruption, vanity, and that is his goal.
 How can that be goal?
 Just think about it.
 Goal has to be something good, something positive, something that brings you something, but that
 doesn't give you anything, that gives you just suffering, destruction, condemnation,
 and that is his goal.
 In itself, that is contradictory.
 So he is the most miserable, most miserable existence, most miserable thing in this world,
 and everybody who follows him is the same.
 So you can bring more examples, I can bring countless examples of that.
 On the one hand, he wants this freedom, liberalism, LGBTQ, whatever, sodomites, everything is
 possible, everything is allowed, no sin, no nothing.
 On the other hand, he wants to show himself as authority, that people would worship him
 as God, and to do that, he needs to say that I am very virtuous, I am against sin, I am
 against this, I am against... this is a contradiction in itself.
 On the one hand, he wants this WEF agenda, sustainable development, we control everybody,
 this neo-fascism kind of thing, he wants that kind of government, totalitarian, stable,
 whatever.
 On the other hand, he wants anarchy, he wants revolution, constant revolution, breaking,
 changing, fast-forward, techno-optimism, singularity, go to Mars, this and that, break everything,
 what exists.
 That's another contradiction.
 So you can see all kinds of contradictions within the agenda of the devil.
 So this is why it's dangerous to just say "oh, they want this?
 They are with Schwab, ok, we are against it".
 That's not enough, you need to remember that someone against it will be also with the devil,
 most likely.
 So if we want to be with the Lord, we need to be not against something with the Lord,
 but we are with the Lord, and then we will see what is not according to the Lord's plan
 of salvation.
 So having said that, we can observe that this world is going through tremendous instability
 now, this world is shaking economically, politically, technologically, in terms of values, in terms
 of philosophies, in every sense, that means what?
 That means that the devil is not happy about how things are in the world right now, because
 he cannot bring this Antichrist to rule the world, he cannot do that in the world that
 we live in today, despite all the bad things we have in this world, despite the apostasy
 that we have in this world, this apostasy is not big enough, it is not total enough
 for him to be able to rule this world, so we should not just have a negative feeling
 about this world, everything is bad, everything is going nuts, no, there is something that
 is still holding him from coming, and we need to give thanks to the Lord that we live in
 this time, and in the Bible we also find words that for the one who is in light, everything
 is light, if we have the light of Christ in us, we will see mainly light in this world,
 you will see light even in the most terrible people, you will have some hope, you will
 have some compassion and love for even the worst criminals, perverts, etc, not for their
 sin but that they are alive, they are brought to this world by God to exist, to live, glory
 to God, we will see God in everything, in everyone and everywhere, in the nature, he
 is sustaining this world, he is bringing this beautiful world, this nature to us every day,
 and even in the urban setting, even in the most technocratic, you know, these urban centers,
 we feel God everywhere, everywhere, you can feel his presence, you can see him, so we
 should not be too negative about this world, what is going on with it, but let's think
 about what is holding this Antichrist, because one day he will rule this world, and in those
 days people will be thinking about our time as, you know, so wonderful, so godly, what
 is holding him yet from coming is the righteousness, the truth, okay, you know, it's takah that
 we read in the Bible, and we see that the whole New Testament, the whole sermon of Christ,
 the whole message of Christ is all about this righteousness or truth, it's translated differently
 because we cannot use modern English to completely convey this concept in one word, okay, this
 is the message of Christ, in one of our recent lectures we've seen, we've talked about how
 the nine beatitudes that the Lord said on the Sermon on the Mount are all about this
 righteousness, every single beatitude is about this righteousness, okay, and this righteousness
 is still much present in this world, in this corrupted apostatic world there is still so
 much righteousness that is not allowing the Antichrist to come, and we can see this righteousness,
 this light of Christ, if you will, these logos, if you will, these divine logos is still in
 this world even in the most terrible people, those who are, you know, heading straight
 to hell, even in those people there is still a great deal of righteousness in them, so
 we can see even the criminals who kill, who swear, who do all these terrible things, they
 have a love towards their children, they have some concept of justice in their dealings
 among each other, they have feeling of shame, for example, they don't walk naked in the
 street, okay, even the most corrupted people, they don't walk naked in the street because
 they feel that it's bad, they feel that it's not good, okay, it's morally not good, okay,
 they do dirty things in the darkness, but when they walk out to this world they have
 to, not just they have to, they feel that they're supposed to behave in a certain way,
 and that feeling is coming from that righteousness that the Lord has implanted in the hearts
 of every man, so even the Gentiles, Apostle Paul tells us, even the Gentiles, they don't
 know the law of God, but they behave according to this law very often, not always, they make
 many mistakes, but still very often they behave in the way of this righteousness which comes
 only from God, from nowhere else, and we can increase this righteousness, okay, this is
 what we are called, okay, we need every issue and every one of us has to become this beam
 of light, beam of righteousness that transforms the reality around us, if you will, and that
 doesn't allow the devil to come, that was topic of another video that I had just recently.
 And we need to not put too much hope in this world, okay, we should learn to disassociate
 ourselves from this corrupted world that is going to destruction, this is going to apostasy,
 because the world is trying to put everybody into one narrative, we are all in common era,
 we're all in modernity, we're all supposed to think this way, this is what's happening,
 there is a narrative, there is a big narrative for the whole world, there are smaller narratives
 for different parts of the world, but the world is trying to pull us into some kind
 of narrative and we need to get out of that narrative and to see that the narrative begins
 from every one of us, the narrative of Christ, and this is what matters, and it matters much
 more than what Trump is doing, what Putin is doing, what Xi Jinping is doing, that matters
 much more, what every one of us is doing in terms of spiritual life, in terms of ministry,
 and being able to detach ourselves from that narrative helps us a lot to build our plans
 with the help of God, short-term plans, long-term spiritual plans, okay, that is what matters
 and we need to have those plans and go by those plans and have them revised in accordance
 to the will of God, okay, and so we also, we can speak about things that are happening
 from this positive way that I have just spoken and we can speak about it from the negative
 way, okay, we should not get into any extreme, from the negative way I can tell you, just
 yesterday I went to some shopping mall, I need to buy some things, and in that shopping
 mall it's huge, it's just huge, there are people who are walking there like every day
 and spending their lot of time because it's just very big, and there is not even a single
 bookstore, so we are talking about reading the gospel, we are talking about not just
 reading the gospel, reading it as a prayer, so you don't need to talk about that, you
 don't even need to talk about just opening a book, there is so few people now that have
 the will and the need of just opening a book about anything, not about Christ, not about
 spirituality, I'm not talking about heretics, okay, this is just any book, okay, I don't
 know about, I don't know, classics, about whatever, even that kind of reading is becoming
 difficult for people, they are willing just to buy things, eat ice cream, shopping, here
 I buy a watch, I buy a pajama, I buy whatever, that's all that's interesting, for a majority,
 for a great, great majority of people, this can tell you how bad the apostasy is, okay,
 because just reading a book doesn't save you, okay, and even reading the Bible doesn't save
 you, you could be heretic, and even if you are Orthodox, you are reading the Bible, but
 you are not putting any effort into spiritual life, it doesn't save you, so you can see
 how far the majority of people is from salvation, so at the same time, this brings us to see
 how sad the situation is, but at the same time, on our individual level, this also helps
 us because it makes this more clear to us what should we do, okay, and what we should
 not do, we should not become like that, and there is a path that we have to walk, spiritual
 path, prayer, okay, we put at least some time of our life into prayer, this is of great
 meaning for our salvation and for the Lord, okay, we put at least a little bit of effort
 into fasting, this already has great meaning, because the whole world doesn't, and it's
 evident that it's going to destruction, so let us not make it too complicated, okay,
 what is the will of God, what is the, what does the Lord want from me, let's not make
 it too complicated, okay, as long as we can find this path of spiritual life taking up
 our cross, not sleeping into some heresy or some delusion or some, you know, spiritual
 dormancy, okay, vigilance, spiritual life, prayer, testimony, okay, craving for the Word
 of God, this is what the Lord is waiting for me, and this is what matters, and everything
 else, economics, whatever, it's not important, so let us avoid any other delusions, there
 are big delusions for the Orthodox, for example, this big delusion that, okay, now we will
 create the great civilization of Orthodoxy, based on, say, Russian Orthodox Empire, or
 some people, based on Byzantine, we will recover Constantinople, we will do whatever,
 the whole, okay, and then this will be the beam of light for the whole world, okay, this
 is all surrogates, okay, this is all surrogates that are just deceiving people and sending
 them to die and to hate each other, for us, the mission that the Lord is giving to each
 and every one of us, that is what matters, that is what is real, and not some kind of
 surrogate, which somebody is trying to impose on me, okay, be it with nationalistic or imperialistic
 or whatever, you know, trade, no, what I can do today, tomorrow, next year, in terms of
 my ministry to the Lord, bringing fruit, this is what matters, may the Lord help us prepare
 for the great land this year, make our ministry, our life pleasing to Him, strengthen us in
 our prayer, in our dedication, in our pursuit for truth, and help us make our faith alive,
 I mean, God bless, brothers and sisters.
