 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord told us to be vigilant, to be vigilant spiritually means first of all to have repentance, to see ourselves, to be vigilant about my own soul, to see how far I am from God, I'm unworthy.
 This is the first thing. To be vigilant about His will, to be vigilant about what He is telling me today, how is He guiding me, and also to be vigilant about the dangers that are out there.
 And to be ready at any moment to counteract, to block any kind of danger, and not to slip into some mistake, into some slavery.
 And to be able to do this, we as Christians, we need to understand all the deceit that is coming from the devil.
 So when I talk about, like my last time I was talking about the beast, and sometimes I talk about the enslavement and things from the apocalypse, it's not out of phobia or paranoia, you know, about some, like those doomers, they see everywhere Antichrist and things like this.
 No, we are not afraid of anything like that. It is just for us to have a better understanding and preparation for any kind of threat that is coming.
 And as a matter of fact, to get out of some traps in which we already have slipped into. And today I want to talk about the trap that we are in already, big time.
 And for us to be free spiritually, we need to see it, we need to ask our Lord to help us get out of this trap. What is this trap?
 This trap I can describe as a golem which is created and which is becoming worse and worse. So what is a golem?
 Probably you've heard about this Jewish medieval fairy tale about a golem that some rabbi, he created from dust some kind of creature, an artificial man, to help him do what he needed to do.
 This is just a legend, but alchemists, and even before medieval alchemists, there was always this idea of creating homunculus, some kind of artificial man who can do the tasks for you.
 And this can seem strange, but if we think about it, we'll see that it's not strange. It's very logical.
 And as a matter of fact, the main goal of these secret societies, occultists, kabbalists, those people who are driven by this maniac idea of controlling the whole world, who become the tools of devil's plan, the spirit of Antichrist,
 they are obsessed about creating golems. And a big golem. And what are these golems?
 Well, in the past, in the Middle Ages, it was not as big as it is now.
 It was resulting in wars when different nations were brainwashed that they have to fight against other nations.
 And in other ways there were different ways of creating these golems. Well, as a matter of fact, all heresies are some kind of golems created usually by some kabbalists and Gnostics to destroy the Church.
 And the whole golem of the Roman Catholic Catholicism is also one of the successful projects of the devil, creating this fake Church.
 Which will be ruled, this artificial, it will be ruled by very strict obedience and hierarchy and all these bureaucratic instruments.
 That's the ideal golem, if you will.
 So, these things are not random. They are similar in nature. So, why golem? Why would you want to create some artificial man?
 Well, if you think about it, if you live in sin, say you want power, you're a sinner obsessed about power. You would want some people to do the dirty work. You're a gangster, let's say.
 You wouldn't want to do it yourself. You would want to do it through someone who will just blindly go and do the task.
 If you want to rule the world, you want your country to become bigger, become an empire, you need some people who will just blindly go and do what you tell them.
 If you have some sin about carnal desire, you want Harlem, you want these people who would do whatever you tell them to do for you to fulfill your desire.
 So, in any case, the spirit of having someone being your total slave, the whole slavery is based on that.
 And of course, the capitalist or socialist systems are also based on that.
 You need some way of making people do what you want. That's why the whole thing about power of money is through this. Power of science and technology is with this.
 There is this idea, and it comes basically from the idea of the devil to be like God. And God has created man in his image and likeness, so the devil wants to create a man in his image and likeness.
 And eventually, he wants all the humanity to become in his possession, created by his image and likeness, this new mankind, this transhumanist idea.
 But to do this, you need to cheat them somehow. To love their slavery, and that was the point of the ultimate revolution brought up about Aldous Huxley in his famous lecture in 1962, I believe, in Berkeley, I think.
 And being obsessed about these ideas throughout the whole history, throughout all those centuries, these people who are possessed by this spirit, they had quite a success.
 And we need to see the fruits of their labor. And this success, of course, came out big time after the Renaissance and when the Christian nations departed far away from God, apostasy.
 Through the creation of Leviathan, of this modernity, of hopes, that was a political thing. Then you have the Industrial Revolution, creating the automaton, when people were sort of tied up with a machine.
 And eventually, it brought up the birth of mass society. Mass society. When the whole nation or whole humanity could be thinking similarly.
 You get this through media, newspapers in those days, the press. You get it through education, mass education.
 And we see how in Western Europe, this became reality in the 19th century, and through so-called "common sense" or this commonly accepted values, things like this.
 It's like the mind which is thinking on behalf of the whole society. And so you have to believe into this Darwinism, you have to believe in this and that.
 Otherwise, you are not part of this society. You are some marginal, I don't know, cosporologist, reptilologist. Okay, so creating this mass society in the 19th century, implanting this idea that, okay, we have a new religion.
 And the nation and the blood, the ethnicity is holy, is sacred. And that idea brought up the First World War, when these nations were killing each other, destroying each other.
 And the aftermath of that war, when most of what was still remaining from the Christian past was demolished, then paved the way for a bigger golem.
 That's those bigger golems of the 20th century. And we have that bipolar world with two big narratives, two big golems. And now they are trying to create one golem.
 Of course, he has some minor golems there, here and there. There is this golem of conservatives, there is this golem of liberals.
 But eventually, it will be all boiling down to one golem, one narrative. And they are using the media to reach their goals. They are using many things to reach their goals.
 One of them is media. Another one is moral degradation and many other things. But media becomes their main tool. And by media, I mean all kinds of social networks, chats, you name it.
 This is what becomes the life of people. So what we're using now, this YouTube, is part of it. And the more we become dependent on it, the more we become parts of this big golem.
 And even by not noticing it, we will be pulled into some narrative and we will be just objects of manipulation. And this is the dream of those technocrats.
 So you might wonder how someone can have such a big plan which goes through centuries. This is impossible even for a big group of people, even for some secret society, I don't know, committee of 300 or something like that.
 Even for them, this would not be possible. Because behind it is the spirit. The spirit of Devil, the spirit of Antichrist.
 And these people who are doing this, they come and go. They come and go, sometimes very quickly. We have those evil geniuses like Lenin, Trotsky, Rothschilds, Marx, Hegel.
 It's an endless list of people who contributed directly to this plan. And most of them, they are dead already a long time ago.
 And many of them died in a very painful way because the Lord himself said that it would be like the ash which the wind blows away.
 So this ash is always blown away, but this bigger plan is developing. And what we see now, the world where we live in, when the technocrats are trying to build one panopticon
 over the whole world, out of the ash of this destruction, this chaos which they are now trying to create, this is another attempt. So you can think about the spirit of Antichrist.
 We need to think spiritually. The spirit of Antichrist. It is like some giant sleeping there and every once and then he is waking up and he is trying to control the whole world.
 He is trying, he is attempting, be it Lenin, be it Hitler, be it whatever, he is sort of waking up. Ok, what can I do now? Ok, I do this, this, this. I try to control the whole world. Then the plan fails and he says ok, later, not now.
 And then it comes in another package, packaging, and he is trying to do this again. But the idea behind it is the same.
 And of course, every round usually brings some outcome. It gives more experience, more knowledge to the church, but it also, on the mass level, it is bringing humanity closer to that precipice.
 And we can see it, we can see it through generations. For example, this modern big technocrat Elon Musk, you see, his grandfather, Heidelmann, I think, Joshua Heidelmann.
 He was a technocrat and he loved apartheid and this Nazism, this fascism, this idea of few people controlling the whole society without any democracy, without anything, because they know better and because they possess the technology.
 And everything will be just running as a, you know, as a factory. That crazy idea. This is the golden. And this idea, ok, in those days, like in the 50s, 60s, he was sued in Canada and kicked out.
 Because at that time, ok, they couldn't do it, at least in Canada. They've tried it in South Africa.
 But now, after 60, 70 years, ok, now we have his grandson having the similar idea, trying to implement the same thing.
 So this is just, this period behind it is trying to, ok, now using modern technology, modern situation, ok, now I try to do what I want. Most likely he will fail again this time.
 And we, having known this, we should be breathing freely because now we understand what the danger is and where it's coming from, brothers and sisters.
 We need to do the right conclusions, not to be more afraid or have some phobia. No, we become much more empowered to do the right, the good things.
 When we know, ok, here this is wrong, this is bad, ok, this is death, this is coming from Antichrist, I know what this is. I won't slip into this trap.
 Ok, and for us the main agenda should always be a spiritual agenda, not even, not a family agenda, not a political agenda, if you will, or technological, or something else.
 This spiritual agenda, brothers and sisters, we should be free spiritually from any addiction, from any dependency on this social media itself. Unfortunately we have to use it, ok.
 In order for him to entrap everyone, he needs to give something to everyone. So they are calling this extension of human abilities.
 So now you can do more, you can be more powerful, more influential, but you become the victim. You lose your soul. This is what they want.
 And it's also called gamification of the reality. Ok, but this is another big topic.
 These social platforms and all the chats and all these things, they are part of this gamification. The way people will think, like everything, values and modes of behavior, all of that will be more and more influenced by these things, by these platforms.
 By the new language which they are creating in this Orwellian sense.
 So, the monks, they were able to be with God, living in the desert, until now. They have no internet, no social media, and they can be just fine, and even much better than we are now, with all these abilities, capabilities, extensions.
 Ok, so let us be free from any dependency, from any influence, brainwashing, which is coming through these gadgets, through these devices.
 And to have the right spiritual priorities that will enable us to do the ministry to our Lord, to witness his love, and to know the boundary.
 If I use some technology, where is that boundary? That I use it, and it's not the technology is using me. This is the important thing, and it's very difficult to grasp that point.
 It could be self-deception. We think that we are using it, but in reality it is this thing which is using us. May the Lord keep us, protect us from slipping into this trap,
 and make us in the hairs of his divine kingdom, and not puppets or slaves of this golem, which the Antichrist is building ameen.
 God bless brothers and sisters.
