 Dear brothers and sisters, we are approaching the Great Land. It will begin
 in just about a week on March 3rd and during this time we think about the
 meaning of the land and where we want to go. And today I want to share with you
 some observations and some ideas about modern paganism and how we see it within
 the Church and why and how is this related to fasting, you know, because as a
 matter of fact we can fast in the wrong way and and sleep into some heresy, okay.
 The great, not the great, but the outstanding heretic Arius, he was very
 skinny, okay. He was like an ascetic. People believed him because he
 seemed to be so virtuous, you know. He was super proud and arrogant, okay, but he was
 disguising this under humility, okay, and this ascotism. So he attracted so many
 people, okay. So this ascotism was based on something else, okay, and this is
 something that I want to talk about today, okay, and recently I see that
 people who live in post-Christian countries who at some point they were
 Christian and even until now you can find the Holy Scripture everywhere and
 you have TV programs about Christianity and even Orthodox churches you have and
 even in so-called Orthodox countries, even there there is this great explosion
 of paganism, okay. People are obsessed about all kinds of New Age religions,
 yoga, you name it, okay, all those mysticism, astrology, like every
 newspaper has to have that astrology as though everybody is looking
 into astrology. This is just crazy, okay, and this paganism is from the elite to
 the regular public, okay. Just recently I went to some to big villa, okay, it's like
 a palace. It was built by one industrialist who had an enormous amount of
 money and he built this huge palace about a hundred years ago, a little more
 than a hundred years ago, and everywhere in this palace you can see that those
 Kabbalistic elements, those symbols, okay, like the inverted pentagram and many
 many other things, okay, related to this symbology and the whole thing of course
 is Renaissance style and it has all that mythology tied up to it and all
 that alchemy and all those secret knowledge and all that stuff, okay, is all
 in there, okay. And I was thinking how come people with very good education,
 okay, who are not obsessed about hardships of life on daily basis, even
 they are in that, in that, okay, and all those societies, okay, if you go, if you
 see the West, West now the whole world, but especially the West, Europe, United
 States, Canada, they are all with these Masonic clubs and lodges and all that
 and they are all obsessed about all kinds of symbolism and all kinds of
 this mysticism and regular people love to watch movies about that, okay. Why
 is this obsession about this stuff and why everybody is pretty much similar, you
 know, it's like tattoo, you know, you would be wondering why people make, you
 know, tattoos and it's all about the same even though they try to be different
 but it looks all about the same, okay, there is some kind of common spirit with
 people who are enjoying these tattoos, okay, or be it, say, bikers, okay, different
 people but they are all about the same, the way they speak, the way they look,
 okay, and similar thing happens with people obsessed or influenced about all
 this occult stuff that people believe in. Why is this so similar? And this is very
 similar to paganism in China, in India, you know, and in those tribes,
 somewhere in Papua New Guinea, it's all about the same spirit, you know, why is
 this so? Why is this so? And this spirit, as a matter of fact, is penetrating into
 all those so-called Christian sects, Protestantism, Catholicism, unfortunately
 we can even see some of it in the Orthodox Church and today I want to talk
 about how does it penetrate into us being in the Church and having all the
 instructions from the Holy Fathers on how to believe, how to fast, what is going on,
 how is this happening? I was also amazed, I went to Russia last year and the huge
 bookstore is all packed with that mystical, mysticism literature, meaning
 people are so much interested in it, okay, even though they have churches all
 around, they have radio, TV, magazines about the true faith, but they are still
 possessed by that, because it's spiritual, brothers and sisters, it has spiritual
 element to it, it's not just, okay, they need explanation, they need to be taught
 that it's just fake, doesn't exist, you know, all those different gemstones that
 influence you or some stars and stuff like that. It's all enough just to
 explain, it's not enough just to tell them, okay, the right faith is Jesus
 Christ, just go to church and your problems will be solved. No, people are
 looking for something else, they're looking for some other solution and this
 is why Israel, the whole Israel in the Old Testament times, it was slipping into
 that spiritual adultery, worshipping fake gods, even though they possess the true
 religion, the true faith, the scripture, the law, the Torah, but still they were
 deceived. So, how is this happening? Okay, it's not enough just to say, oh, it's so
 bad, let's tell them what's the right thing. No, of course, first is to change
 your life. If you don't change your life, if you don't, okay, learn how to fast in
 the right way, if you don't have prayer, if you don't have God in your life, you
 will have those substitutes. You will be trying to find substitutes for
 comfort, for security, for pleasure, for everything. It's supposed to be
 received from God, from your loving Father, but you are looking to
 get it from those harlots. But this is not enough just to say that, okay. These
 things are related to Gnosticism and Gnosticism is a religious thing, it's not
 just philosophy, okay. It has its spirit, even though there are different schools
 and different types of Gnosticism, but generally we can say that there are some
 common elements, okay, and what we have today is the spirit of Gnosticism, or if
 it's a spirit of Cain, if you will, okay. What is this spirit? Okay, what is this
 Gnosticism? Well, it's not that easy, brothers and sisters, it sounds
 self-contradictory, because Gnostic, he negates matter, okay, and you say if he
 negates matter, why people want carnal things, carnal pleasures, carnal
 possessions, why those Gnostics they want world power, okay, and all the money in
 the world, and they have it, okay. Well, so this is self-contradictory, but there is
 an explanation. You see, they believe that there is some God, the true God is bad,
 because he created this material world with all his suffering, with all those
 problems, but there is another good God who wants to save us, and that good God
 has some power, some fire, some light, which he gives to some, which he gave, okay, for
 some reason some people possess that, okay, they are enlightened, okay, even if
 they don't know it, but they will know eventually. So, those people, they have
 this aim, this goal, first of all, they are smarter, they have a wisdom, unlike
 everyone else, so only they have the right to rule everyone, no democracy, okay,
 this technocratic thing that is coming is also Gnostic, so no need for
 democracy, we have those enlightened ones, they will lead the whole world to
 salvation, and this salvation is the transformation of this world, this world
 has to be broken, we need to destroy all traditions, okay, and we need to, out of
 hack chaos will be order, but this order will be in line with that spirit, okay, it
 will be in line with that spirit of Satan, let us speak frankly what it is,
 this is Satan, okay, it will be more and more in line with that spirit, so the
 greatest task for them is to transform this matter, they are not happy about
 this world, okay, and this lack of happiness is giving them this worry,
 this tremor, this is why Cain, he was always shaking, okay, God told him you
 will be shaking all the time and wandering around, so this is why all
 those desires to transform this world to get a better one, you have this
 same spirit behind it, okay, well this can have different aspects from
 revolution, let's destroy, burn the whole world and create a new one, war, global
 war, or it could be just consumerism, okay, what you have today you should not be
 happy, this house, no, it's already old, I need the bigger one, I need a nicer one,
 your phone, okay, it's already outdated, I need a new one,
 those consumerist spirit is also this gnostic spirit, and we will be
 sleeping into this spirit as soon as we lose the true God, always obsessed about
 where we go to travel, we want to go here to travel, there to travel, or
 what kind of medicine we need, okay, this or that, because now it's not enough,
 it's there's always this pain, this egregious dissatisfaction, frustration
 if you will, it's all about frustration, this is why 80% of people now they have
 these psychological issues, because they are not happy, okay, about this world,
 about they are not thankful to the Lord, they don't have this peace coming from
 Christ, so we can see that the devil is tricking the people, and this is why for
 us, for Christians, if we just say, okay, this material stuff is bad, okay,
 satisfaction, this food that we have during the Lent, it's bad,
 everything is bad, only spiritual, only spiritual, we have that risk to sleep
 into that heresy, usually we have the other thing, usually we don't care about
 any spiritual, okay, and we just serve our desires and become slaves of Mama, but
 even when we strive for something spiritual, we may make this mistake, we
 may make this error, okay, and have some negative attitude towards this created
 world, let us ask the Lord to give us wisdom, to give us humbleness, to give us
 eagerness in prayer, in ministry, okay, that we are looking for this union, we
 want His will on earth to be as it is in heaven, we want to be, according to this
 will, in this world, because He created us in this world, we are in these bodies,
 they are given to us by God, so it's not something to complain about, okay, we need
 to only complain about our own sins, okay, may the Lord keep us away from all those
 spirits of delusion that are out there, from all that agnosticism which is in
 this world, okay, about which I also spoke in my last video, and may we help our
 beloved ones to escape all kinds of delusion, this modern paganism, and reach
 salvation, reach salvation in Christ, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.
