Dear brothers and sisters, we are now entering the great lent. And the last Sunday before the lent is called the Sunday of the Adam's exile. We recall how Adam and Eve, they were chased, they were taken out of the Garden of Eden, and they had to go through deep repentance.

The whole humanity had to go through these thousands of years of repentance and search for the true God, and eventually receive the salvation in Christ. And in the same way, we will go through this path of the great lent with deep repentance, with the craving for the Lord, for salvation, for the reconciliation with our Lord. Opening ourselves to the Eternal, asking for the Spirit of God to come down to us, to cleanse us from all impurity, to transform our every weakness, sin, passion, everything which is old and unsuitable for the Kingdom of God.

And this path of transformation is not only about what we eat and what we don't eat. Yes, the fast is called fast because we don't eat certain products and we eat less. We begin this recovery of our will through constraining our desires.

From the very basic ones that we want to eat and we like tasty food and to eat full and stuff like this. This is necessary, this is absolutely necessary. But there are other things which we sometimes take as just an addition, just some bonus.

But this is not an addition. Today I want to talk not about the food, but I want to talk about fasting from the digital things. This dependency on digital content, involvement in this world.

And to be able to fight with this, to be able to win, we need to understand how harmful and how deadly are these things. How poisonous are these things and why? What is it about? What's so bad about using Internet? You could ask. Today I want to say about this.

Last two videos I was talking about gnosticism and how these occultists, they are driven by the spirit of devil to destroy this whole world. And to build another one which is more suitable to their spirit of Satan. And most of the big wars and revolutions, they have this spirit behind it.

This spirit is inciting. It was behind those bourgeois revolutions. It was behind the reformation for sure.

It was more recently behind this Soviet communist revolution. And of course behind the two world wars. But all these things were before.

It's not so recent. What is more recent is what happened after World War II. That's generation, let's say, of baby boomers.

And also what is happening now. There was a big transition of the world happening with the baby boomers. What we can observe is that for the spirit of evil, for the spirit of Antichrist to be able to destroy some world and build another one, he needs to rely on someone.

And he cannot just rely on few folks who are like secret government or something. And even the whole elite. If you have the whole ruling class, they all conspire to do something, they will fail.

They will fail unless the general public will not be ready for that. So here comes the responsibility of every one of us for what is happening with this world. And this preparation of the whole generation of people who are able to dismantle the old world and to build another one takes decades.

And we can say that... First, before talking about our problem, the problem of Internet, let's talk about baby boomers just for a second. In the West, baby boomers destroyed the previous world. The previous world was industrial, it was more Christian than it is, than it became later.

It had some values, it had some traditions, some morals, family understanding what is sin, what is evil. It had some dignity, it had some responsibility for the society, for the citizens. And some love to their homeland.

Even though it was modernist, etc. It was gnostic by itself, but it had much more Christian things. You can see it from the movies, from the books, from everywhere.

It was against the war, because it experienced that big World War II. But the new generation, the children of these war veterans, the baby boomers, basically they didn't have that. They were very cynical, even much more modernist in the sense that full trust in technologies and stuff like that.

Techno-optimists, call it that way. And no need to work so much, easy going, more organic, not so mechanical. All these things, post-industrial, post-Christian, post-humanist, if you will.

They destroyed the whole world and they brought this new world, let's call it the Hollywood world. Without any conception of scene, global, international. And it became the new paradigm, this paved way for the following globalization.

And in the Soviet bloc, in those former orthodox countries, also these baby boomers, they brought the collapse of the Soviet Union. It was because those people, they did not believe anymore in any ideals, in any common good or anything like that. So for them, consumption, enjoyment, individualism, making money, mammonism, call it that way, became the paradigm.

And based on these kind of people, also cynical, the Soviet Union's dismantle was destroyed successfully. And you can say that a similar process was even in Asia, in most parts of the world. So overall, the world as we know it, after the Berlin Wall, the collapse of the Berlin Wall, this world of globalization is also a product of the baby boomers.

Make it simple. I'm just simplifying many things here. You can split it into much more generations and paradigms, but just make it simple.

And then comes this generation of homo interneticus. The generation, and now it's not about the age, it's more about your involvement into this new paradigm. New paradigm.

And actually, for many baby boomers, they became homo interneticus also, but mainly it's the next generation. And even these internet people, they can be split into several generations of internet people with different things, different habits and stuff like that. But let's not go into detail, not to lose the big picture.

And the big picture is that we have this homo interneticus. What is homo interneticus? What is this new type of people who are created, who are now the basis for this new transformation, which is ongoing right now, it's happening right now. When it began, you can say roughly from the time of pandemics, but a bit earlier than that.

The active stage began with pandemics, let's call it that way. And we live in this constant crisis, in constant war continuously ever since. So now it's ongoing.

Transition period. And what is the basis for this transition period? It's the homo interneticus. And let us see what it is.

Homo interneticus. First, for him, the virtual is more real than the physical. Physical becomes just addendum.

It becomes just like an extra extension of what is happening inside. It's what I can buy online. It's the people whom I can meet online.

It's my hobbies. It's my movies. It's everything that I enjoy, that gives me safety, that gives me meaning.

It's all in there. You don't have to be that dude that plays games and cannot stop. Even if you're just a normal, regular person, chances are you are homo interneticus.

Because most of the stuff that worries you, your heart will be there. Let's put it that way. And this is why we have such a big problem with the family.

Because people don't want families. Families is a real person in front of you. And that's responsibility.

That's some reality. And that's a burden. Children are a burden.

Maybe when I become old, I need something to play with. I have a child. Maybe, yes.

Just for fun. So, we can talk a lot about it. But let's come back to the point.

For the homo interneticus, there are no boundaries. He becomes more cosmopolitan. He treats all those government things as just a part of the game.

Everything is a game. For homo interneticus, life becomes more and more like a game. Quests, challenges to overcome, levels, coming from one level to another level.

And if you are killed, come again. If you are bankrupt, come again. Or change the country of your residence.

And everything else is obstacles. You kill them. Or you collect some bonuses.

It's a game. You are self-motivated by these things. And humans lose their value.

What value has some avatar in Facebook? Tomorrow, delete, forget. And the same goes towards people around you. They are just avatars around you.

I'm just surfing this life. I surf the internet. I don't care if they die, if whatever happens to them.

I don't care. Because I see death every time I watch these movies. Action.

I play games, killing people. For me, death is nothing. It's like a game.

The whole life is easy-going, like a game. Not even valuing your own life very often. So basically, no breaks.

For Homo Interneticus, no breaks. Because you can do everything fast, immediately. Push a button.

So temperance. We're coming back to the idea of the great lent. We have passions, everyone.

And for Homo Interneticus, it becomes just a matter of seconds. Click. And you can realize any passion.

So you become possessed by all your passions. Unless you fight with that. Unless you are conscious of that.

You are drawn by your passions instantly. And you are locked by that. You become a slave.

Spiritual slave. Much faster. And you become blind, brainwashed much faster than otherwise.

Knowledge. There is no need for real knowledge. All your knowledge comes from bloggers.

You don't do any research. You don't need to study big textbooks to listen to lectures. That's boring, that's difficult.

No. Everybody is easy to explain. What? He is a good guy, he is a bad guy.

I got it. So what is this going to lead us to? And what can we do? You can say, well, everybody is like this. Are we going to be like Luddites, go to caves or something? First of all, the Holy Scripture tells us that the temptation will come like a net.

It will cover everyone. And also it's like the darkness. After sunset, everything gets dark very fast.

You cannot run away. It's just dark. Fast.

So this temptation with this Homo Interneticus is like that. It's coming upon everyone. Unless you have the light.

So this is why Christians, they loved these all-night vigils. Because they could be conscious of having the light while it's darkness for the whole world. So if we want to be saved in this era of Homo Interneticus, we need to be with Christ as much as we can.

With our whole heart. Approach Him, strive for Him, crave Him. Otherwise we will be swept by this darkness.

What is this like? This is like... Let's say you are a big sinner. Let's say you are a thief. Or you are an adulterer.

For many years. Today you repent, you come to Christ. You want to live a holy life.

You do live this holy life. But you need to remember, you need to be conscious of what you were before. Otherwise you will slip into that very quickly.

You are a thief. You've made so many people cry. And you have this thing, possess this, grasp that, steal that for nothing.

And nothing is going to happen. You have that in your character, built into you somewhere very deep. Unless you are conscious of that and you repent of that, you will not change fundamentally.

You will not receive that healing and you will not recover. It's not just like that, okay? It's a lot of prayer and humbleness, humiliating ourselves. So if we want to overcome all those harms, all that threat that was brought to us by us becoming homo interneticus, we need to be conscious of that.

We need to be fighting with those things inside us. With those dependencies. We need to understand that our mind is blown away.

The noose is just destroyed. It's so weak. We need to be conscious of that.

That our heart is blind and stiff and hard. And our consciousness is burned out. We need to know that.

Otherwise we will be just playing, just pretending that we are fasting, that we are Christians. And no real healing will take place. Eventually this society of homo interneticus, it will bring eventually to breaking of all governments, of all moralities, of all religions.

And it will suck everyone into this new anti-Christian paradigm of worshipping Satan. It will be called differently. It will be called something else.

But in reality that's what's going to happen. Like with the sects and heretics. Most of them are satanists.

But most heretics and sects, they don't say we are a sect, we worship the devil. No, they say we worship God, we are pious and stuff like that. But they do worship the devil.

And the same thing will happen with the whole world. Important thing to understand is that the more these Gnostics, they are able to create this new type of man, the more this man will be tending towards self-destruction. The more we are homo interneticus, the more we will suffer, we will be alienated from others, we will be harming ourselves every day, every moment, through passions, through many things.

We will be hurting, harming ourselves. This is the state of this Gnostic homo interneticus, the person destined to destruction. And on the spiritual level, certainly the Lord will withdraw his spirit from such people.

And they will be like the dust or ash blown by the wind in the Psalms we read. So temporal, so unreal, so shallow. That's what's happening now with many people.

Especially after pandemics, this becomes so evident. So many people are hacked. And each and everyone included, to some degree.

From the spiritual point of view, we also see that homo interneticus cannot have the eternity. It's much flatter. It's down to earth.

In the sense that everything is about things in this world. Be it consumption, be it politics, be it health, be it whatever, it's all here. Be it occultism, esoterics and stuff like that.

Behind every passion there is a spirit. Not to be mistaken. There is a very strong spirit.

But he is deprived of the spirit of God, of truth. And this is why in every respect people lose their culture, their honor. They become very superficial and very dependent on everything and afraid of everything.

May the Lord keep us away from this spirit of this world, from gnosticism, from this exposure to internet. Let us reduce this exposure to only when it's necessary. As soon as we feel any dependency, we cut any exposure to that.

And during this Great Lent let us ask the Lord to heal our souls. To bring us out of the prison, to bring us out of this darkness. To keep us in light, in holiness.

Give us true repentance. Give us true knowledge, true knowledge of truth. Make us His beloved children and not children of this fallen world.

Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.