Dear brothers and sisters, the first week of the Great Lent is about to over. This Sunday is called the Triumph of Orthodoxy. Today I want to say about this journey of the Lent that brings us back to those 40 years of wandering in the desert. 

When the Israel left Egypt, which was quite comfortable, even though it was slavery, but they had food, they had work, okay, they had shelter, it was very stable. But now they lost all of this, and they did not gain this promised land. They saw how beautiful it is, but they were unable to enter. 

And now they are in these 40 years of going around, okay, like hopeless. And this was a very important school, and it was also a very important prophecy about what the Church will be like. Because the Church doesn't have any earthly kingdom. 

The Church has only this promised land, which is in the heavens. And now in this world, we are going through this path of wandering, path of learning how to listen to the Lord, okay, how to follow Him, how to not put our trust into this world, okay. Somebody who is in the desert, okay, he is not trying to build a house, okay, he's trying to see, okay, where to go. 

So, the great land is six weeks minus two days, okay. So, it's exactly 40 days, exactly 40 days of land. Then we will have also the passion week, another week of serious fasting, but it's not part of great land, okay. 

And we don't call it holy week, okay. Holy week is a Catholic way of saying it. It's a passion week, okay. 

So, now during these 40 days, we have this chance of regaining our calling and our dignity of being Christians, okay. Because we are Christians not because we are baptized, but because we belong to Christ, and because our homeland and our citizenship is in the heavens, and because we take up our cross and follow Christ, and we don't look around, okay, we don't look around, we don't find refuge in this earthly life. And the saint Basil the Great, he said that whoever is in comfort, he doesn't have the contrite heart. 

So, any kind of comfort that we have or that we may be dreaming about is all against the kingdom of heaven. It's all against Christ. It's all directed to crucifying Christ. 

And it's now time to cut away every dependence on this world. And this begins from fasting, okay. It begins from fasting, from fasting food-wise.

During these days, many so-called Orthodox Christians, they don't care completely about fasting, okay. And that means that they are not Orthodox Christians, okay. So, today I won't talk about them, okay. 

Whoever doesn't fast during the Great Lent is not a member of the Church. This is the Holy Canons, okay. So, there are different ways of fasting, strict, less strict, but if you don't fast, if you decide, well, it's not for me, okay, I will just pray, I will just do something else, but no, fasting no. 

Okay, sorry, you are not Orthodox, you are not Christian. Of course, Protestants, they're not Christians, because they don't have any fasting. So, they are just in the class of the devil. 

And Catholics are there also for that matter, okay. But most Orthodox are also understanding this wrongly, okay. And among Christians who are trying to fast, okay, who are trying to be good Christians, Orthodox Christians, there are two ways of looking at it, okay. 

One way is liberal, is this pseudo-spiritual, which will say, well, we are already spiritual, so why we need to talk about food, okay, I eat sausage, I eat carrots, okay, what does it matter? And this is just a way of finding an excuse for mammal, okay. So, whoever neglects fasting food-wise is basically just a slave of mammal, okay, just basically working for the old man in himself, trying to worship his belly and try to find excuse for himself and persuade himself that he is a Christian, okay. But there is nothing in common between him and Christianity.

Another way of looking at it is a conservative way, but it's a way of a Pharisee. And unfortunately, many people, many Christians, faithful, they think that the more serious they are about the rules of fasting, the more Orthodox they are, okay, the more traditional they are. And this brings them to what? To canine religion, and I had a video on that. 

What is a canine religion? Okay, this is for God, and this is for me. Okay, God, you want what? You want these rules? I follow these rules? Okay, I follow these rules. Okay, be happy, okay, and give me your blessing, okay, and everything else I keep for myself. 

Okay, this is a big problem. This is a big problem. So, no matter how strict is your fasting, okay, if your basic attitude is like this, sorry, you are a Pharisee, you are a canine, okay, you are not a very Orthodox and conservative, okay, don't fool yourself.

Because for the Orthodox, the cure, the same Saint Basil the Great, he tells us that the cure for the wound of sin is repentance, and repentance without fasting is empty, okay, is not repentance, okay. So, we need fasting for repentance, and the Lord is looking for our heart. So, for us, if we want to recover our dignity and our, our essence as Christians, okay, our calling, if we want to be faithful to our calling, we need to love God from the bosom, like Abel. 

Abel, his sacrifice was from the bosom, from the guts of those animals, he brought those guts to sacrifice, to symbolize that his whole self is sacrificed to God, okay. So, unless this is our aim in this land, okay, this land will, will just be for nothing, okay. And what does it mean practically? Practically, it means that we are not satisfied with ourselves.

Practically, this means that we see ourselves as being chastened out, out of the chamber, the bridal chamber. We are full of swords, we are standing and weeping and knocking that the door may, the Lord may open those doors of his mercy to us. I can share with you my experience with the Great Lent. 

For many years, I had this aim at trying to be very serious, very strict about Lent, and there are not many people like that, okay, but I discovered that that's also wrong, okay. I was trying to be very serious, I was researching how the early Christians were fasting, okay, they were not eating for the whole day, and maybe have just a little something in the evening, etc., and I was trying to follow them at least on some days, on the strict days, but by the end of the first week, I failed every time, okay, every time the Lent was a failure, okay, and I couldn't understand what is going on, why is this happening, okay, and then I, after many trials, okay, I understood that the core problem is that I'm self-reliant, that I rely on myself, I, of course, I don't, I'm not conscious of this, I'm not conscious of this, I think that I'm humble and this and that, but the reality proves otherwise, okay, the reality proves that I just think that I can do it, okay, and if I do it, I give myself these bonus marks, okay, yes, I've done it, yeah, I'm nice, okay, this, this is what the Lord hates, the Lord hates when we think like that and he doesn't give us success in the Lent, as long as we have this attitude, yes, I will do it, I'm something, even if you're not conscious of this, okay, so it is important, if we want to be successful in the Lent, if we want to recover this status of being Christians, okay, we need to empty ourselves, we need to break our proudness, okay, we need to acknowledge that we are nothing, okay, that we are nothing, without the Lord we are nothing, we fail and we spoil everything and only in that situation the Lord will give us this joy, he will give us this joy and he will give us this joy of being free, of being free of those shackles, like those people in the desert, being free of all these worldly, worldly bonds which are imprisoning us, like in the desert, okay, try to be happy about not having any refuge in this world, no refuge, not in your house, not in your property, not in your relatives, not in your career, not in your diplomas, not in your, I don't know, savings, you name it, okay, nothing, that doesn't matter, all of that is nothing, okay, I can just throw it out anytime, because my heart belongs to the Lord, this is what matters for me and whatever he tells me to do, wherever he tells me to go, I will do it, I will go, okay, without any reservation, without any second thought, this is what the Lord is expecting to us, to regain this, to regain this during this great land and we have this great opportunity, then it will be lost, okay, yeah, finished, okay, it's just normal life, so now during the land this is the time, this is the great opportunity and we have everything necessary for that, everything necessary, okay, and this limiting ourselves, restricting ourselves in terms of food will open to us this path to salvation, like for the Eve, she did not restrict herself and that opened to her this way into death, okay, she chose to be fed by something else and not by God and this choice is in front of us, we choose either to live for this food, for some tasty stuff, be it some, I don't know, entertainment or career or whatever, we are fed with that and if we choose to be fed with that, we don't want to be fed with God, he said I am the bread of life, that means that only him is the true food for us and we don't choose this food, we choose something else, so now during this land we begin constraining ourselves in terms of food and that helps us to learn what does it mean to constrain ourselves from other stuff, okay, and this constraining brings some emptiness, okay, your passions will be hungry, that's why some people get nervous or easy to be irritated, but that openness, okay, that vacuum, that emptiness that is created by us restricting our exposure to social media, to communication, to events, to whatever, this brings us this emptiness and it is time to use prayer to fill this emptiness with God, otherwise he will not come, there is nothing where he can come, there is no place in you, you're filled with all kinds of stuff, your mind, your heart, your everything, your belly, it's filled, it's full, so we need to make it empty and let him to come over, allow him to come over to find a place in us, and you will see how tasty it is to receive God in yourselves, and this will bring us back to our homeland, our spiritual homeland, which is our union with Christ, and we can continue this for the rest of the year, okay, so now we're not dreaming about how this land will end and we have nice trapeze, nice meal celebration on Pascha and after, so we don't think about it completely, okay, don't think about tasty stuff and stuff like that, it's over, okay, we think about the celebration in the kingdom of heaven with our Lord, so whatever we can gain in terms of losing, okay, losing ourselves to gain true life, so this true life that we gain we want to preserve even after this land, may the Lord help us, give us the eager heart, may he make us conscious of the apocalypse, okay, true Christian is the one who lives in apocalypse, okay, what does it mean? It means that every prayer, everything we do in terms of fasting, okay, it's all inviting the second coming of Christ, the Lord's prayer, may thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven, this is calling for the Lord to come in his second coming, for the second judgment, we are calling for this world to end, so we are living in this apocalypse every day, what other earthly matters, earthly stuff would matter to you if you are craving for the apocalypse and it is opening up for us on every day, brothers and sisters, this is the reality that we need to enter in, this kind of life, and now it's the time to enter into this reality, that will be true Christianity, that will be bearing the cross of Christ, that will be not worrying about tomorrow what the Lord has said, may the Lord give us such hearts, may he help us find refuge in him only, crave for him only, and throw away anything that is still making us, binding us, making us addicted to whatever there is in this world which is corrupted and which will perish, the food and anything else belonging to this world will perish, it doesn't have life in it, only God will not perish, so he is the true food that we are wishing, that we are craving for, that we are hungry for, may the Lord give us this food and keep us true members of his precious body, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters.