Dear brothers and sisters, this past week was the week of veneration of the Holy Cross. It's in the middle of the Great Lent and we are called to draw the power from the cross. It is called the Life-Giving Cross. 

However, we may wonder what it means to draw power from the without spiritual insight. We really don't understand, don't appreciate, don't feel it. We can maybe understand it logically, but we don't really have that feeling, it's not evident to us. 

And today I want to talk about how to gain the power, the spiritual power that we need so much, how to strengthen our faith. Because in this journey, in this journey of Great Lent, if we try to be strict about it and serious about the spiritual journey, mortifying our old self and living for Christ, taking up our cross and following him, we will see that we really are so weak, we always fail. And we might wonder, how do I avoid it? How can I gain this great power, this motivation that the saints had? And how do we go about bringing fruit of faith? Because without this, we don't have faith. 

Faith which doesn't have a great profound change to our life, to our internal self, it's not faith. It's not just belief in some dogma. No, true faith is power, it's a great power. 

And today I want to share with you some observations and some thoughts about this power. How do we draw this power? And what are wrong ways? In faith, very often we encounter people fail. People, we can say it's like a shipwreck. 

The whole pursuit of faith, everything just goes apart, just collapses. Collapse, catastrophe. When people leave the church, they hate everything related to Christ, to God, etc. 

There are different ways of going into apostasy, this is what we call it. And there are reasons for that. And the reasons which we encounter very often is that people, they don't find this spiritual rock that they can rely on, that they can lean on in times of challenge, times of distress.

And they are finding fake rocks, fake bases of their faith, fake foundation, if you will. For example, some people may be inspired, we just think what was so important for me in my first, after my conversion, during the days of my conversion? Was it maybe some monastery? So I went to that monastery, I saw how people live there, and I was moved, I really saw kingdom of heaven there. But if we just stay on that level, we're gonna collapse. 

Because on some day we will see something behind the curtain, we will see some ugly things about this monastery or some people. And we will, because our faith is not found on a rock, it is just found on some people and some subjective feelings and emotions. And they will fail. 

At some point, all of this will be crushed. Okay. And the goal is for us to see, yes, it's very important at some point to see a testimony of faith of some people. 

However, this is only a step towards finding the true reliance in Christ himself. And today we will talk about this, and it may be very difficult to approach this directly when we hear, okay, trust Christ, he will save you, okay, he is the rock, he is the fountain of life. Yes, we can sort of understand it, but practically speaking, this is a very high level spirituality.

Most of us, myself included, are finding difficult relying on Christ completely, okay, to be able to withstand any challenge, to feel always in Christ, to have this union with him. This is our goal, but very often we just have a little glimpse of it, little taste of it, but it's not like our daily reality, like 24-7. So, however, this doesn't mean that we need to find some fake basis, okay. 

There are other things which may be helpful, okay. I will talk about it, which will be helpful as that basis, as the reliance that we need so much, okay. Also, our shipwreck can come from a wrong understanding of our relationship with God.

I had the experience quite a few times that some faithful, they were very pious, they went to the church for many years, participated in everything, in the sacraments, in the liturgy. However, at some point, there was a big distress in their life, and they've just abandoned everything, okay. And the reason for that is that they, well, from the outside they are very pious, but however, the inner self goes into some kind of contract with God, okay. 

We have some kind of contract, we say, okay, what am I supposed to do? Okay, I'm supposed to do this, this, this, read prayers, okay, take Holy Communion, okay, read the Bible, okay, these things, okay, don't do sins, okay, major sins, confess often, okay, I do all of that. But now, since I do all of that, I have my expectations that God is supposed to do his part, okay, he's supposed to protect me, to make me avoid big injuries, okay, big problems in my life, protect my relatives, okay, hear my prayer, give me some good job maybe, okay. So, people have different ideas about what God is supposed to do for you, but it's some kind of contract, and if we feel at some point that he is not fulfilling this contract, we're just, everything just breaks apart and we leave, okay, we depart. 

So, this is also something that we encounter, and we remain Cainites. If we have this heart, we are Cainites still, even by being, like, pious Christians. So, these things and other things are important to avoid. 

The greatest problem, of course, there are two main problems that we have. One is a love of flesh, money, physical, etc., okay, that we are lazy, basically we are lazy to live spiritual life and we go back and serve our mammon, our belly, okay, no matter which form it takes. And another thing is a proudness, arrogance, and slipping into heresy, or what I call mind worshipping, okay, you worship your ego, you worship your mind, you think that you are the smartest, all the Protestant sects went that way, okay, and of course not only Protestants.

So, okay, let's say we try to avoid this, okay, we say honestly, the Lord, I am not here for the mammon, I want to take up the cross and follow you as much as I can, okay, this is my goal, I am sincere, okay, I really don't want to give in to all those mammonistic, hedonistic stuff, okay, I want to fight with my old self till the end, okay, I want to learn humbleness, I want to be faithful to the holy tradition of the Church, okay, I want to be among these chosen ones that you are waiting for, okay, for whom you said you prepare the place in your kingdom, okay, I want to be among them, Lord, what do I do, how do I do that? I fail, I'm weak, okay, I'm ignorant of many things, what do I do, how do I gain the strength? The Apostles, they've asked, Lord, increase faith in us, even they, they were honest and felt that they have weak faith, okay, so, in this situation, I can advise a parable, okay, the Lord himself, he said very often that the kingdom of heaven is the highest value, that we need to search first and foremost the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness, and everything else will be given to us, and we need to gain, collect the treasures in the kingdom of heaven, and this is the highest goal, exert all your strength, all your power to gain these treasures in heaven, this is what he said, okay, if so, our mind, we can understand, okay, I'm the citizen of heaven, okay, I want to live for heaven, my main concern is related to heaven, okay, how do I make this my reality, how do I change so that this is not just some idea, this is something that is working in me every day, non-stop, well, let's think about our relationship with our earthly homeland, okay, let's say we are, I don't know which country you are from, in case you've moved or you've went to travel from your home country, let's say you are French, okay, I don't know, or, okay, I don't know which country you're from, in case you're French, let's say, you go to another place, and everybody speaks different language, it's a different food, different weather, you don't have here any relatives, and different jokes, different customs, okay, you go, say, to China, okay, to India, okay, somewhere there, this is quite different from France, okay, you'll miss your homeland, you'll have nostalgia, and everything that reminds you, if you have to stay there for a long time, if it's not just a weekly, I don't know, retreat, you have, let's say, you need to live there 10 years, 50 years, okay, for a long time, if you're a normal person, okay, you will miss your homeland, you will feel that, well, okay, I miss the stuff I have, I take for granted when I'm back home, so everything that reminds you, be it some person who comes from there, okay, your compatriot, or be it, say, some presents, some food, or some souvenir from your country, a book even, you value that, and you feel very good, okay, you feel stronger, if you go back to your country to visit your family, you also will feel stronger, you'll feel better, okay, you'll feel that you are in your own place, okay, you can, you know, be at home, feel at home, feel stronger, okay, so this analogy, it brings us to this idea that we need to distinguish people, okay, books, divine service, okay, whatever is related to our true homeland, because for us, it is much more important than our earthly homeland, right, so we have to have that, you can say, nostalgia for your true homeland, and you need to draw this assurance, this power, okay, this dareness, if you will, okay, from being close to your homeland, from gaining experience related to your homeland, to your true homeland in heaven, okay, and it could be different things in different stages in your life, of your faith, okay, but it will be something that you can rely upon, because it's related to homeland, okay, not making it by itself an idol, okay, so what can that be? I can share with you, brothers and sisters, that in the early stage of my faith, I had some things that I relied, okay, mainly upon, now it's a little bit different, okay, for example, when I was a novice, if you will, okay, neophyte, the one who just converted, and who is like really, still really naive, but very eager in faith, okay, in those days, I relied heavenly on reading the Holy Gospel, gave me great inspiration, on divine service, I went to every service I could, okay, I relied a lot on lives of saints, all kinds of saints, okay, and also on some people, either spiritual people, monks in the monastery, with whom I had some conversation, and also on the spiritual father, who was, at those days, guiding me in my first steps to, in the faith, in this conscious faith, I had faith before, but that was not really conscious, not serious, and also in my journey towards priesthood, okay, so these were the main elements that I draw my inspiration, and also, of course, I had the prayer every day, morning, evening, okay, that also was helping me, okay, to gain this great strength and patience that I need to overcome the challenges I was facing back then, okay, and of course, that was quite a while ago, that was more than 20 years ago, and in this path, okay, of this eager faith, I faced quite a few big challenges, okay, big hits, and those brought me to some crisis, and I was seeking for restoration, for the recovery of my spiritual state and my life in Christ, okay, to have it stable, to give me power, and on that stage, maybe a few years ago, let's say, I gained great inspiration and strength from already other things, also directly related to faith, but it was something else, for example, for me, of great inspiration and help were lives of the early martyrs, which are quite different from just general lives of saints, lives of these early martyrs that gave you the great testimony of what it is, and it was more evident that they are people like you and me, okay, they're just normal people, they have their weaknesses, but they made the decision, why they have made that decision, to withstand all those tortures and forfeit all things related to this world for the sake of the world to come, okay, so that was very inspiring at some point, and it still is, okay, also I went to the Holy Communion at some point every day, because I saw that this is where I can draw this healing and this support, strength in Christ, in this physical union with him, every time preparing well, okay, approaching it seriously, not as a routine, okay, as a great event of your life, of your day, that gives you this direction, motivation, strength for the day to come, okay, and that was also very important at some stage of my life, it still is, now I know, I know the power of the Holy Communion, also examples of desert fathers, who are basically through their daily martyrdom, you can call it, they kept the spirit, the fire of faith burning throughout centuries to follow, okay, after these times of martyrs, not to have the faith disappear, okay, or become just, you know, just some kind of ritual, some kind of settled dogma or morals, okay, no, Christianity is not that. These things, okay, which I've mentioned, gave me this feeling that I'm at home, okay, whenever I'm reading sayings, also divine liturgy, of course, divine liturgy, I was learning more and more to draw this immense power of the union with Christ within the liturgy, so whenever there is this, okay, whenever I'm receiving this spiritual food, of course, I connected to the Lord, I feel that this is the taste of his kingdom, this is where he is himself, okay, and I'm in this very close, very intimate relationship with him, whenever I'm interacting with something that I've mentioned, also, of course, I just forgot to say the Jesus prayer, the Jesus prayer, the hesychasm, the whole practice, the whole communication with the Lord, that became also a great discovery for me, even though I know about it before, but the power and what it really is, this great art, if you will, of prayer, prayer of your heart, okay, these things, they really opened up a whole new world for me, at some stage, which I had to go through, okay, in the course of some great challenges that I had to face. So, this analogy, I think, is quite relevant, that whenever you're close to something, that you can really draw this feeling of belongingness to your true homeland, okay, to the place where you belong, where your heart, where your whole self belongs to, this will give you great power, dareness, enlightenment, motivation, strength, fearlessness to move forward and to know how to move forward, okay, and how to overthrow any kind of challenge that you may have to face, okay.

So, this is what I wanted to share with you, brothers, today, also, and sisters, to conclude, I want to read the... from Epistle of Apostle Paul to Hebrews, chapter 13, verse 7, I'll correct the King James a little bit, okay, Apostle Paul, he says, remember them who have... remember them who have taught you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, and considering the end of their lives, follow their faith, okay. This is more correct, this is the, okay, the order, the word order that I have used is more correct, which means that there are people, it could be someone who is alive, it could be saints that we read about that are... that have passed away, but they are alive in Christ, in the heavens, okay, it could be... it could be the apostles, okay, who wrote the epistles, it could be... it could be anyone who loved Christ, from whose life you saw what does it mean to love Christ, and remembering their life, especially how they've ended their life, because that's a great indication, and that most often meant martyrdom, okay, for the great ascetics, it could mean some... something else, they've shown, or their... okay, their faces were shining when they've died, or maybe hundreds of... of their disciples established monasteries all over, and they came to venerate their departure, okay, anyhow, usually how a man, a Christian departs this life would also indicate what is the final sort of seal or stamp that the Lord gives to him as a trophy of the whole the... of the whole path of his life, of the whole, you know, agon, okay, it's called... agon is like the challenge that you have to go through in this life, it is like sealed by the way you die, okay, it's the second birth, if you will, your departure from this world, it's your second spiritual birth, so seeing that, be motivated by that, and follow their faith, follow their faith, meaning that you saw how great faith they have, now you can have the same faith as great as they had, okay, as great daring as that they had, as great wisdom in understanding the Holy Scripture as they had, okay, just dare for that, aim for that, maybe the Lord will give you even more, okay, but this is a vivid example that you certainly can follow, have that trust in the Lord, that he can guide you, he can lead you, have humbleness, humbleness, repentance, go host hand in hand with daringness and great motivation to pursue the kingdom of heaven, and to do the testimony of this kingdom of our love towards Christ and our ministry towards people. May the Lord give us such daringness, may he strengthen our faith, may he teach us how to see, how to feel this power that we can draw from the cross, from the divine service, from the spiritual Jesus prayer hesychasm, and eventually, step by step, we'll be opening up more and more to direct, to direct reliance on Christ, okay, to drawing this great joy of being with him every time, all the time, okay, to having this sincere prayer streaming out, gushing out from our hearts to talk to our beloved Lord. 

May the Lord help every one of us on our path, may he strengthen us on this path of the holy land, and keep us from every deception, every misunderstanding of faith, and from any corruption, any laziness, may he be with us, and may he make us true heirs of his divine kingdom, and the joy of his salvation. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.