Dear brothers and sisters, we are about to enter the Passion Week. This is the week six days before the Holy Resurrection of Christ. And these six days, they are called the Pascha of the Passions.

We usually say Pascha, saying that it's the Resurrection, the Easter. However, the more correct way is to say that there is Pascha of the Passions, and there is the Pascha of the Resurrection, which is this celebration, this Easter celebration. And for the Church, it is actually the Pascha of the Passions, which is more significant. 

Okay? And this is a crucial point that we need to understand if we want to be true Christians. Okay? It's not just some matter of different theology. No, this is something crucial. 

And today, I want to say a few words about this, because I think we cannot overemphasize this. This is just super important. First of all, let's read the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 7, 22 to 23.

Many, the Lord says, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many miracles? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you, depart from me, you that work iniquity. These are very harsh words, brothers and sisters, very harsh words. We see that there are, there will be people on this day, this day of Last Judgment, that they will come and they will say, Lord, Lord, they are faithful, they believe in Christ. 

Some people, now Protestants, say, believe and you are saved. Okay? No, these people are believers. What we say now, Christians, people say Christians, Christians, it's not Christian. 

If you believe in Jesus Christ, you're not Christian. It's not enough to be a Christian. So these people, they believe, okay, but also they work miracles, they cast out demons, okay, they do mission, they are very active, they preach the Gospel, and all of that is not enough. 

Even like that, the Lord is casting them out. He says, okay, I don't know who you are, doers of evil, okay? So let us think deeply, what does it mean? And the Holy Fathers, they help us understand this. They say that even people who have all kinds of sins, who do iniquity, like this Nebuchadnezzar and Barlaam and many others, they were evil doers, and they never repented, but there were miracles done through them, and prophecies which were spoken through them. 

So when now we see some preachers and some activists, they say, we are healing this and that, and we are casting out demons, so come to our church, believe in us, because the mighty works of God are done here. Sorry, first of all, maybe it's fake, but even if it's not fake, the Lord can do miracles through unjust and evil men whom he doesn't even know. So you might say, what does it mean he doesn't know? He knows everything, he knows everything, he's omnipresent, he has all the knowledge. 

Well, there are two levels of knowledge, okay? One is knowledge of essence, that means that he knows essentially what this is, what that is, who you are, who is that, and there is another level of knowledge, and this another level of knowledge means love, means union, okay? And the Lord knows only those whom he loves and who love him, who have responded to his invitation, and they've changed their lives, and they took up the cross and follow him, only they will be his beloved ones. Others he will say, sorry guys, I don't know who you are, I never knew you, so let us be very critical of ourselves, let us not be too fast to say, oh, I am among those who are pleasing to the Lord. Maybe we are still among those who are far away, who don't yet know him well, and today we will dive into this topic, we will see that it's possible to be a Christian, and even orthodox Christian, to call yourself that, and not to know Christ truly, and not to be known by Christ in this sense, in this sense of love. 

When I walk into a protestant bookstore, I see all kinds of books about Jesus, and holy bibles, and research stuff on Jesus, okay, but when I look at the image of the Lord, I see those, those babies, you know, those, you know, cute and nice little guys, okay, and all kinds of other blasphemy, which they use to represent our Lord Jesus Christ. So, I know exactly, immediately that, okay, there is nothing of the Lord here, okay, in the hearts of the people who run this place, okay, I'm not talking about all the books which are sold there, we can find even the holy father's books, but the people live by some other spirit, and some other understanding, and they know nothing about real Jesus, okay, because knowledge is not just reading the books, okay, reading the bible, it's not knowledge. Okay, I will say a little bit more about that, okay, with the Catholics, it's also, you know, the more old traditional Catholic, it's a lot about this death, and pain, and all kinds of visual and carnal passions, and sadness, okay, but the modern Catholics, they are almost like Protestants, okay, they have this laughing Jesus, like a man with a beard, like laughing, and all those modernist stuff, which also has nothing to do with the Lord, okay, so we can say that there is no spirit of the Lord, you can find the Lord, his spirit, his presence only in the Orthodox Church, but even the Orthodox Church has hard times, people in the Orthodox Church, they should not get relaxed, to really find your path to the Lord, and take up your cross, and follow him, that will take a lot of effort, and today let us try to find this key, let us talk about this key towards knowing the Lord, and being known by him as his beloved son or daughter.

What is the meaning of the word Pascha? Pascha comes from the Greek Pascho, the verb Pascho, which means to suffer, okay, which tells us that Pascha is about suffering, it's about passions, so it is the passion week, which is Pascha, and not what follows after, what follows after is, you can say it's a natural outcome of Pascha, this resurrection is a natural outcome, but what is essential and central is the passions themselves. When the Lord was told by Peter, that Peter told him, don't go there, don't go to Jerusalem, don't be, we'll have another plan, okay, you say you will suffer this and that, you will die, no, we have another plan, okay, it's much better, you don't have to die, and the Lord told him, go away from me, Satan, because you are thinking about the earthly things, and not about the divine things, because for this exact thing I came to this world, you see, he came to this world for the passions and death, for the cross, this is why he came to this world, this is the whole meaning of his arrival, and this was the understanding, that through these passions we became liberated, we became, we regained our sonship to Christ, okay, so we see from the early church, that the apostles and the holy fathers, this is what they've felt the most important, the passions of Christ, okay, and later the resurrection that happened is just natural outcome of these passions, okay, but it's not all about the resurrection, it's about the passions, and in the same way, let us look back even earlier to the Old Testament, Pesach, which means Passover, okay, the passing over, okay, this overcoming, this exodus from Egypt, okay, this painful process, okay, it was painful to pull out from the Egypt, from Pharaoh, to go through this Red Sea, and then 40 years in the desert, wandering in the desert, all this process was very painful, but it's this process that the Jews for hundreds of years, more than thousand years, they were celebrating, it's not that, oh, we arrived to this promised land, let us now celebrate arrival, we celebrate arrival to the promised land, no, they never celebrate this arrival, they celebrated this exit, this passage, this painful process, because that was the liberation, that was what made them the heirs of this promised land, they spoiled it, okay, they lost this land, but they were still celebrating the Passover, and not this promised land, this arrival to this promised land, or victory over those tribes of this land that we read about. So, we see that it is much more important to focus on these passions than to focus on the subsequent resurrection, and even in the Church, in the Orthodox, in the true Church, despite the fact that we have preserved everything, the Church has preserved for us everything, we have the divine service, which tells us that it's the Passion Week, which is most important, we have the Holy Fathers, we have theology, we have the teaching, we have everything that tells us that it's all about the Passion Week, we have the procession of the shroud, which we do on the Holy Friday, but not many people come, you will see that the churches on the Passion Week are almost empty, but there will be a big crowd of people on the Sunday, on this night service for the Easter, and people will be running around, and screaming, and eating, and having all kinds of decorations, and performances, and this and that, and the reporters will come with the cameras, and they will spread the news, Orthodox are celebrating, so that really tilts the whole focus on this resurrection, which makes us, okay, what does this do? Okay, let us think deeply, what does this do? Okay, this brings us to this logic of Catholics, okay, and I will explain, okay, because you see, when we have resurrection as the most important, and the Passion Week is just the preparation for it, that means that, okay, we are, we need to go through this, we suffer through this, so that we prepare, and we have this great big celebration of the resurrection, so the same transfers to the life of Christian, he would feel that, okay, this life, I just need to suffer through this life, okay, and the most important is there, it's out there, it's waiting for me, okay, in the heavens, with Christ, etc., but this life, I don't know, why do I need to suffer so long, so much, why do I need to, you know, do all these vows and prayers, year after year, okay, and have all kinds of issues, problems, sicknesses, why not make it faster, simple, okay, why, maybe even a martyr, okay, I would want to be a martyr, because you just do it one day, one time, you've done it, okay, finished, you're with the Lord, hallelujah, so this creates this monotheist mindset, that it's all about holy, all about heaven, and what's here is it's pain, suffering, it's really meaningless, okay, we just need to kill time, we just need to suffer through this, but the true meaning of Christian faith is different, it's about seeing that this life, every day of my life, is these passions, is me taking up the cross, and this is why I came to this world, and this is, yes, it is difficult, it's painful, but it has great meaning and joy, through suffering we get joy, this is true spirituality, okay, and I'm not waiting when I run away, no, in the same time, in the same sense, so if the Passion Week would be for all of us the main thing, we would understand much better what does it mean to live Christian life on a daily basis, and when we live like that, we become dear to Christ, and you'll say, oh, these are my people, in that day, so we see this splitting of the main thing to the afterlife, into Kingdom of Heaven, it's later, that's when we're going to be really celebrating, but this life is, okay, it's not, this brings us to apostasy, this is what happened ultimately with the Catholics, and later it was perverted by Protestants, okay, so the Catholics, they split it away, okay, they said, okay, yes, supernatural, later, salvation, later, so now it's pain, suffering, and this and that, traditional Catholic, and then Protestants, they just came and said, no, it's already here, it's already here, Pascha celebration, resurrection, no cross, no need for the cross, you just believe in Jesus and he already put on the cross, so no need to suffer anything, no need to repent, etc., just live happily, this life is paradise, okay, we build paradise here, and some of them, they made this crazy heretic idea of the millennial kingdom, which is coming, or the rapture, that we will be taken up to the heaven, this and that, and it's all about the materialistic, physical kingdom, it's a heresy of the Judaism within Christianity, and then modern Catholics became similar to Protestants in their spirit, but even, it's even worse, because they have this guarantor, the Pope, which just guarantees them, okay, don't worry guys, everything's going to be fine, I have it, I will fix it for you, so all this nonsense, all this great misconception, it makes people, it's like this virus, this sickness that comes, spiritual, and it alienates people from Christ, you see, we become, within this stream, we become like everyone around, if you're in a parish, in Catholic, in Protestant, you will become like everyone else in this parish, and you will be poisoned by this feeling and idea, perception of reality, that is apostatic, and eventually you will hear those words that the Lord said, I never knew you, who are you, okay, yes, you've called my name, yes, you've done some miracles in my name, but I don't know who you are, okay, you never took up your cross, you never loved me, you never decided to find the truth, you just was sticking to these wrong ideas and to your apostatic life, you were left in this apostasy, in this alienation, you chose this alienation, you chose not to receive truth, it's not I don't want you, you don't want me, when you had this opportunity, you chose something else, and this is the problem, okay, so this is about heretics, orthodox, we need to pay attention, we need to pay attention, because we are risking the same thing, it's much more, much easier for a carnal mind to understand the Easter, the resurrection, the celebration, but it's much more difficult to understand why is the Passion Week, which is much more important to really go into to understand what it is, so let us really try to make the Passion Week part of our life, not just some tradition, not just something I look at, I participate, yes, okay, this is what we're supposed to do, these are the readings, this is, okay, the program, no, it has to go deeply through us, we need to overcome this alienation, okay, we have now alienation from people, from our family, from our language even, okay, from our cultural tradition, we have alienation from everything, and also from the church life, we might think that we're part of the church, but we look at things like outsiders in our heart, somewhere deep, me is me, this is outside, this is just some church tradition, there is some rules, and this and that, we need to overcome these brothers and sisters through taking up our cross and willing to follow Christ, may he help us, may he give us this grace, may he open in us this vision, our spiritual eyes, so that we can be truly his disciples, take up our cross and follow him, I mean, God bless brothers and sisters.