Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen! The Holy Church celebrates the Resurrection of the Lord, the Pascha of Resurrection. In the last video I've spoken about the Pascha of the Passions, and please avoid misunderstanding. The Holy Church always celebrated the Resurrection of the Lord.

We celebrate it every Sunday, from the time when the Lord himself came to his disciples. Remember, upon his resurrection he appeared, they were all present, and then after a week he came again when the Apostle Thomas was there. And so the Church began celebrating resurrection every Sunday. 

However, once a year we are coming through a very special time, this time of the Great Lent and Passion Week. And on this time the greater emphasis was placed on the Passions of the Lord. From the early Church till the third century, this was the main theme. 

The more we advance in our spiritual dialogue with the Lord, the more we feel that during these days it is only Passion Friday, on the Great Friday, this is when we have to be with Christ. This is felt so much by people who love Christ. And it's not only because of some sentimental willingness to be together. 

No, this is because we feel that our salvation comes from these Passions and from the death of the Lord on the Cross. And we have the Holy Cross everywhere. We don't have the, say, tomb, empty tomb, say, symbol of resurrection.

No, it's the Cross that we have everywhere. And the Cross is directly related to Passions and death of the Lord, which brings to us the true life. There are many lectures about the meaning of Pascha. 

So today I want to focus not just on the meaning of resurrection, which we talk about and experience every Sunday, but today I want to talk about some core key in understanding God. And by missing this key, we are slipping into devil worshipping. And this may sound very strange and exaggerated, but it's not. 

Okay, let us now approach this topic step by step. On the Holy Friday, we hear the words of the Lord that they have not known me because they have not known my Father. Even though these Jews, these priests, they have religion, they have education.

No, they have not known my Father. And this is why they have not known me, because only through me, you can see God the Father. Okay, so this is about some very intimate relationship between those who've met Jesus and discovered that he is love, humbleness, source of true life, source of resurrection. 

He said, I am the life and the way and the truth, and we need to seek this very intimate revelation of the Lord to us. And unfortunately, most people don't want to see it. They refuse seeing it, even though the Lord is always knocking to their hearts, but they don't see it. 

So, what they receive instead of knowledge of God the Father, they receive the knowledge of Yaltabaoth. Okay, we can argue that all the heresies, not only Gnostics and the Judaists and others worship, well, Judaism is different, but mainly they have wrong idea about God the Father. And this idea is what Gnostics called Yaltabaoth. 

Okay, you can check it out. What is this in essence? In essence, this is the Western theology, the Western theology of all this justification or redemption that we have this legal relationship with God, and he's not satisfied with us. So, there is a need for some special redemptive sacrifice, so that he wants his son to be killed, sacrificed to him so that he can say, okay, now I am satisfied and I can forgive sins of other people.

This legalistic understanding of God is essentially slander towards God the Father. And why do we need this slander? This slander is needed by the Satan, because he wants people to be alienated from God. This is his task. 

Just imagine this. The Lord, he's creating all the people, and he creates them so that we can have this love relationship. Okay, they can embrace the truth and the blessedness of God himself. 

They can share, partake of this life, this true life, this eternal life that the Lord is giving freely to everyone. Because without this life, man is what? He's just a piece of molecules, okay? You can see in the cemetery what the man is, okay? He's just some filthy bones eaten by worms rotting there, okay? This is all man is without God, without his life, and he gives this life because of his love, because of his care. And we need to see that he is the loving father. 

But this scholastic idea that no, he is some judge, and he's just deciding, okay, to allow you to enter paradise or no, or put you into hell so that you will be tortured there forever, okay? He wants you to suffer. He's going to be burning you with some fire and stuff like that. And the devil is his sort of slave that or like manager, you know, like who is managing this waste material for him, okay, in the paradise, okay? So okay, this is a slander against God, brothers and sisters, which became so widespread in the West, it's just totally immersed, the whole Western theology and spirituality, it's immersed in this understanding of God. 

We can say that this is all what? This is all agnosticism. People think that through theology, through some rituals, they can control God, or through some of this new age, charismatic, you know, demon possession, that they can gain some communication with the true God, okay? This is all fake, brothers and sisters. This is all so fake, because it is all based on this idea of Ialdabaoth. 

And people do become blind, they are unable to feel God. This is one of the reasons why Pascha is not the main feast in the West, even for centuries now, okay? Because it's easy to understand the nativity of Christ. Yes, God comes to us, to this world, he is blessing, okay, he's our savior, it's easy to understand. 

But that he died and resurrected, okay, this is just some ending, but so what? Okay, so the West does not understand, does not feel this true life. And unfortunately, this has spilled over even into the Orthodox Church, and I will talk about it in a while, in a minute. So, what we can say is that we have an apostatic understanding of God, which was implanted into the heads of people, okay, so that they can become more worldly, okay, that they... How do you love such God, okay, who is just a strict judge up there in the heavens? He just, okay, he doesn't allow this, this, this, okay? Do you love, can you love such God? Okay, or let's say on that dollar bill, in God we trust, in God we trust, and we, I don't know, we do this, we do that, that Constitution, this deistic God of American Constitution, this Masonic God, can you love such God? Does he love you? Brothers and sisters, this is all slander about God, takes different shapes and forms, but it has one basic idea that, okay, God is not love, he is not your loving father, so you just can't have to obey him, okay, for some better outcome in the afterlife, but, okay, how do you love him? It's really difficult to love, okay, and this brings, this brings us to where? This brings us to all these sects, okay, Protestant sects first, then we have all these rationalistic modern philosophies, okay, we have all this modernism, we have nihilism, we have Hegel with his kabbalistic dialectics, okay, we have Marx with his materialism and atheism, this all is rooted in this slander against God, so what atheism is actually negating is this Yaltabaoth, it's fighting with Yaltabaoth, it's not fighting with the true God, so it cannot tell you anything about true God, it has to be outright Satanist like Lenin who would be fighting with true God, yes, he would be just going and just killing priests and blowing up churches, okay, yes, that is more like fighting with true God, but theoretical atheism is fighting with Yaltabaoth and it's easy to refute and to say, to persuade people, no, there is no such God, okay, relax, believe in science, we'll give you another savior, science, progress, psychology, I don't know, drugs, we'll give you other things to enjoy, consumption, mammon, we'll give you mammon which will save you, okay, so this is because people have not known Christ and have not known God the Father and became alienated and living in apostasy and this is why we have so much evil in the world right now and no matter if it's atheistic country, if it's so-called Christian country or it's anything else, not Muslim, okay, you won't find love there, okay, it will be quite harsh, okay, or it could be very polite, but this will be just brainwashing, okay, people are in some kind of illusion reading that, but it will be very evil and anti-human and anti-Christian, essentially.

Why is that? Well, because most people were successfully misled by devil and what the devil does? The devil makes you worship, either you worship this elder Ba'al, it's hard to love him, so very often you fall away from that and you worship something else, okay, and you worship be it progress or some other religion or some other practice, wherever you find satisfaction and salvation, and that would be mammon, prince of this world, and satan, ultimately that's gonna be satan, and people become satan worshippers, and why are you surprised there is so much evil if people are practically satan worshippers? He is evil, the evil comes from him, and when people become satan worshippers, that's what we have, that's the outcome. Brothers and sisters, I've spoken enough about this modern day agnostics that we find in the west on theology, I can say more about ancient agnostics and kabbalists and the judaists, okay, and sometimes I do, those who are expecting another messiah, antichrist, who worships satan basically, but I want to say just a few words about what's going on with us, because this is a big issue within the Orthodox Church, without this clear view, clear understanding what is what, we tend to slip into this apostatic idea of God, which is Yad Vav, really, okay, and you can read about it, if you want to read more, Saint Justin Popovich, or you can read Professor Alexander Kalaniris, The River of Fire, it's a book, they say many things, very much in detail about these things that are happening, based on the Holy Fathers, okay, it's all very well rooted in the revelation of the Lord, and this is why we can have within one church, we can have within one parish, okay, we can have some people who've discovered Christ, and they love him, and normally they would come on Great Friday, and you can find, okay, people who either have not yet understood what's going on, or they've found God of Yad Vav, so for them religion is something else, but they would come in the same church and worship together with us, and then don't understand what's going on, when they are evil, when they are betraying, when there is no spiritual fruit, well, they say, well, because I'm not a saint, this is what they would say, but the problem is that maybe they have not yet discovered true God, they have, they don't have true repentance, and this is why they don't yet know God the Father, because it's only through Jesus Christ that you can know God the Father, if you haven't met him, if you haven't felt his love for us, and his self-sacrifice for us on the cross, if you have not felt that, then you would be approaching God as Yad Vav, and unfortunately many people are like that, may the Lord protect us from this, and as a matter of fact, even if we've discovered God and his love, but we still sin, this understanding will be close, it will be dimmer, dimmer, and eventually we will just know God, that he's like Yad Vav, he's just a judge, he will be alienated through our sin, without any help of judaists, or kabbalists, or whatnot, we will alienate ourselves from God, through sin, we'll choose mammon, we'll choose devil practically, and eventually we will lose this chosenness and salvation. May the Lord keep us in his truth, may the Lord give us decisiveness to take up our cross and follow him, and to overthrow any deception, any worldliness, any traces of this old self which is still in me, this pharaoh, this Egypt, and it has to be mortified, this world has to be mortified for us, and then we live for Christ.

May this be so, may his life be with us, in us, the resurrection be in us, working in us, changing us from within, making us the true members of his body and hairs of his heavenly kingdom, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters. Christ is risen.