Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. The Holy Church will celebrate Pascha until Ascension of the Lord for 40 days. During these days we greet each other, Christ is risen, indeed he is risen. 

We chant the Trapparia of Resurrection. And also during this time we we have this feeling of very great intimacy, very close relationship with the resurrected Lord. This is the time when, especially if we've tried to fast during the Great Lent, we will reap more spiritual fruits. 

And these spiritual fruits will be in this greater appreciation of the Lord's guidance, reception of different gifts and revelations. And this is why I want to talk about the Book of Revelation today. We remember that the Lord, he appeared to the disciples. 

After his resurrection, he was coming to him with his body, with his scars from wounds from the cross, from the nails. And he was telling them what? He was telling them secrets of the kingdom of heaven. And he was teaching them what to do in these days to come. 

And they could not really tell if they are still on earth or in the heavens, because he died, so apparently he's already spiritual. But at the same time he's physical and he's coming to them, he's eating together with them. So, it is really some very strange situation. 

So, this is why the disciples, they experience this. And every year after Pascha, there was much greater appreciation of this closeness, of this union between man and God. And today, these days, as we are in this time, we really should be craving and asking the Lord to give us greater spiritual gifts and revelations. 

And today I want to share with you some of the things regarding the revelation of John. And actually, it's a revelation of Jesus Christ. And we can read it in the first verse, okay, Revelation chapter one, verse one, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. 

Some people say it's 2,000 years and this hasn't happened. Okay, this is the problem. It is happening already for 2,000 years and we are asleep. 

That's why we don't really appreciate, we don't really feel, we don't really know what are these things. Okay, so, first of all, this is new revelation, new revelation of Jesus Christ that was not given before when he was on earth, still living with the disciples. Because we remember he told about the end of times. 

Okay, there is this small revelation, so-called, in Matthew chapters 24, 25, Mark chapter 13, Luke. But all these revelations that he gave to the disciples at the time, just days before his crucifixion, it was not everything. Okay, and he told the disciples, I tell you now, as much as you can encompass, contain, you cannot contain more now. 

However, later I will send my Holy Spirit to you and he will teach you everything. So, this was happening to many disciples and until now this is happening and one of these revelations was given to Apostle John and that was more than 60 years after the ascension and resurrection and ascension of the Lord. So, there was a need for this new revelation. 

Why there was a need? There are several reasons. Okay, just to mention a few is that now the temple was destroyed. Okay, a lot of teachings that the Lord told to disciples, they were, okay, in that reality when there was the temple and the scribes. 

So, he told them, okay, obey the scribes, but don't do what they do and many other things. Okay, but now as the Jews had 40 years for repentance, but they haven't. Some did, but mostly haven't. 

Now the temple is destroyed. Most of the Jews are either killed or scattered. Okay, or they abandoned God. 

Okay, so all the blessings were taken away from them and now also so many Gentiles in different parts of the world, okay, became Christians. Okay, became part of the body of Christ. So, this is a new reality also that the church now is facing and also there seem to be quite a lot of different pieces of revelation in different places which are outside of the original revelation that was given by Christ, but they are scattered and there was a need to put it all into one context, into one worldview, and to understand, to have the people of God understand what is going on and what will be going on and what is the task of the church, who are the enemies of the church, where it's all going. 

Okay, so pieces like for example Apostle Paul in 2 Thessalonians is telling us that there will be this man of lawlessness that will come and people will bow down to him. Okay, this is much more concrete information, but who is he? What is this mystery of lawlessness? And okay, there was a need to put it all in one context. Okay, so this revelation was given to John. 

Okay, another thing to say before we tap into it is that there were revelations, similar revelations before, for example prophets Daniel, Joel, Isaiah, Isaiah, okay, Jeremiah, they had all, Ezekiel, they had all revelations and some of them relating to these times of Mashiach, okay, times of Christ which began with Christ coming, these times of Christ, so they have these revelations about those times, but there was a need for a new revelation, so even though John knew all those revelations, basically they all saw one reality, brothers and sisters, we need to understand that what is described in these revelations is reality, it's not some just some symbols about something, he's, well, it's not reality in the sense that yes, there is this harlot of Babylon running around on the beast, no, but it is spiritual reality, okay, and there are limits to the language of man to describe spiritual reality, so it comes in this shape of those visions, but it is real, brothers and something real, and prophets, they also saw it, but it was not full, but now John sees it in a much fuller way, and he is explaining that how it's going to be happening now as the new reality already took place, unlike in the times of the prophets, because now already Messiah, he came, and the whole world has changed, everything has changed, okay, how did it change, okay, so now let us say something about this, that now we remember Christ said that heavens came closer, okay, so this is new reality, heavens came closer, and it actually united, but it got united only in the people who became children of the heavens, who became one physically with the resurrected Christ, within this realm of true Christians, let's put it this way, there is this heavenly reality incarnate, okay, in this fallen world, and this is a reality which has its own laws, it's all direction, it's all everything, okay, and whoever is really, whoever really loves Christ, he is living within that reality, whatever is in this reality is real to him, okay, and for him what John saw is much more real than, okay, planes, trains, I don't know, I don't know, some, I know, stock markets, no, of course, those would be also have some kind of reality, but they would be much, much more inferior, if for the, for the fallen world, let's put it that way, fallen world, those things may play much greater role, economic, political, stuff like that, for the world of Christian, the first level, the most real things are the things that the John is talking about, that he saw in that vision, to him that reality came out bare, naked, okay, and he saw that through that, he walked into that door, if you will, and saw that openly, and it is opening us to us through our spiritual eyes, the more spiritual we get, at the same time, there exists this fallen world, and it also changed, for this fallen world, the kingdom of heaven is now much closer, it came close, it came close in the sense, in this metaphysical sense, also it came close in the sense that now everywhere you can encounter a true Christian, and he will bring with him the kingdom of heaven, and you'll, you'll face it, okay, you'll, you'll, you'll be presented with it, and then it will be your choice if you want to embrace it or not, but it's much closer to you than it was, let's say, before Christ, when the whole world lived like in a cocoon, in some closed box, okay, heavens were far away, so in this closed box, this world had its own laws of development, I don't know, historical, psychological, sorry, sociological, I don't know, laws of economics, of politics, of culture, you name it, okay, behaviorism, dialectic, historic dialectics, I don't know, any model you want to use, but that's for the fallen world, it has its own ways of development, but now it is sometimes, and quite often, is, sort of, has this interference, it has its tension in its, it's not as smooth as it would be without this closeness of the kingdom of heaven, so this mystery of the kingdom of heaven will be now influencing this world, this fallen world, big time, okay, in some periods more, in some periods less, okay, in some periods there will be big persecution or big tribulations happening, and that is some, at some point, you see, there is a big interference happening between these two worlds, and I'll explain that later. So, who lives in this fallen world? People who are in apostasy, put it simple, spiritually dead and blind and, you know, people who have not met Christ and they are alienated from Christ, put it simple. However, it's not just, well, just ordinary people, okay, however, there is another, like, a subset in this fallen world, if we can say, these people who haven't met Christ, they are, and they're not looking for Christ, okay, they're just living day-to-day, just simple life, spiritually asleep, they are moving in this direction of hell, okay, but there are also some people, also spiritually dead, however, they have, they became slaves or tools of the devil, they became like those demons, okay, so they not just follow this whole herd, but they, inside, and they are like pastors, or they trigger, they want everyone to go faster into this destruction, have a deeper apostasy, so they are much more active, and they have yet another worldview, okay, they have this worldview of the the goals and whatnot, okay, of course, there are different stages of your enlightenment, let's put it that way, fake enlightenment, the demonic enlightenment, which is darkness, enlightened by darkness, okay, that, okay, they would do it with more or less knowledge of the entire vision, okay, the closer you are to devil, eventually, you are thinking more and more like the devil himself, and we can also distinguish a fourth group, a fourth group of people would be people among these ordinary people, however, they are, they are looking for truth, they are looking for Christ, they haven't found him, but they are looking for him, okay, so there is a great hope that they will find him eventually, they may do many mistakes, they may slip into some wrong, you know, direction, but they are actively looking, okay, also one thing to say is that, and of course, somebody who is not looking today may be looking tomorrow, okay, and somebody who is a demon possessed slave of the devil today may become great saint in near future, okay, so these are not cut off, so we were not Gnostics, okay, who believe in different sects, different castes, so what is also important is that the people who are ordinary, they are not, they are not naturally inclined to become the people of God, okay, we should not have that, those romantic, naturalistic view, okay, because whatever is developing according to the mystery of piety with the people of God is, we can say, it is product of great effort, of free will, it is against the flow, okay, because if you, for example, you want to grow crops, you have to put great effort into growing these crops, if you just leave it naturally, it will all weed, so this is why when we don't exert this effort to bring fruits for the Lord, we slip away, we drift away, we slip into some heresy, into some schism, sect, apostasy, delusion, so it needs great effort on our part, and then the grace comes and is helping us, but this is not natural, brothers, this is unnatural, let's put it this way, okay, so this is why there is a great responsibility, this is why the Lord says be vigilant, okay, toil, bring fruit, if you don't bring it this year, bring it next year, if you don't bring it next year, maybe I'll cut out this dry tree and throw it into a fire, okay, so we should not expect things gonna go natural, okay, smoothly everything is gonna be fine, no, it's gonna be worse if you don't do anything, okay, so now in the Revelation we see what will happen at this time of Mashiach, this era of Mashiach, which began with the resurrection and rising of Christ until now, so the things which are described in that book is not about last few years of the world existence, when the Antichrist is gonna come, then maybe three and a half years, or how many years, it's gonna be like very fast, it's just bam bam bam, okay, this Knights of Apocalypse, they will go tutu tutu, okay, one after another, very quickly and finish, and then Christ is coming, okay, no, this is wrong, this is wrong view, because these things are happening, these spiritual things are above time, both in time and above time, okay, this is like the resurrected Lord, he is both physical and above physical and spiritual, it's hard to say, but it is happening, okay, brothers and sisters, we need to understand that, it is happening, and if we don't see happening, it is our problem, it's not the problem of Revelation, it's our problem, we, for, I can tell you, for the early church, the book of Revelation was much much more straightforward, they could understand, they could read it, they couldn't get the main things, it's not like now, everybody has his own understanding, and the greater imagination you have, the more stories you can say about Revelation, no, for them it was, at least, of course, Bible, any scripture of the Bible has different layers of meaning, and you can always learn more and more things from there, but the main basic meaning is just one, and it's a matter of understanding what is this telling us, however, we don't get it if we're not spiritual.

So, one important, I won't go into details, I won't go today into these different seals of the book of Apocalypse, into seven churches, into these nights of Apocalypse, into those horns, and into the incense, and many other things here, I won't go into it, but I want, my goal today is to provoke interest in this book, to facilitate, aim at spiritual life, unless we have it, we are not with Christ. Vigilant, be vigilant, most people, okay, the Lord is sending alarms, but most people, they close all these alarms, they don't want to hear any alarm, okay, this is natural for people, even people in the mines, you know, in the mining, why we have explosions in mines, because people switch off alarms, because it sounds all the time, you know, you have methane, you have other stuff, the alarm will sound very often, so just to not to bother people, just switch it off, and then it just blows up, okay, so the same thing, the same thing here, humanity is switched off these alarms, okay, and many people, they leave, and they don't pay attention, the Lord is knocking, knocking, knocking, they don't react, and at the end it's all over, okay, they are in the abaddon, and many Christians are like this, many Orthodox Christians are like this, so brothers and sisters, I urge everyone not to be afraid of the book of Apocalypse, don't have the paranoia of fear, and trying to explain who is the beast, and who is this, and who is that, like the Protestants do, but to penetrate into the spiritual meaning, and spiritual, both spiritual and physical, okay, like also the Paul, he says this, our fight is against these powers and dominions of darkness, it's not just spiritual, okay, dominions of darkness somewhere there, it's also physical, and many people, they carry out this work of this darkness, physically, spiritually, not just spiritually, and we need to be aware of that, and not to fall victim, fall prey of those things, so let us ask the Lord to truly make us participants of this mission of the Church, to stand in truth, to be truly his warriors, to bring this testimony of the gospel, of his love, of his kingdom, and also the last thing I want to say about Revelation today, is that there is a paradox, apparent, it seems to be a paradox, that at one hand it is like a celebration, the whole book, if you read it, you feel, you have a feeling that it's like celebration, but at the same time it is all those disasters here and there, and fears, and suffering, and this and that, tribulation, well, why is this happening? this is happening because two worlds are sort of intersecting, and they cannot intersect, the world that is the Church, the kingdom of heaven, and this fallen world, and especially this world of Abaddon, this abyss, which is trying to suck in everyone into itself, so now as these two worlds come closer, it's like a chemical reaction, you have melted, like lava, melted metal, and you have water, and if you put it, it just blows up everything, it's just a great explosion, so this is something of that nature, when these two are approaching each other, at some points there will be those explosions, we have it in great persecutions of the Church, we have it in the form of natural disasters, wars, and rumors of wars, and many other things, so there is no contradiction, and actually the Lord's crucifixion is a contradiction, because he was in the glory on the cross, that was the apex of his glory, but he was on the cross, it was torture, it was suffering, pain, so in the regular mind it doesn't fit in, it just blows your mind, but spiritually speaking this is what happens, so similar things with the revelation, this celebration of the Kingdom of God, and these disasters that are happening in the world, which is not accepting, which is choosing darkness, may the Lord give us his blessing, keep us steadfast in truth, in his grace, in humbleness, and help us in this spiritual warfare and testimony of his truth, I mean, Christ is risen, brothers and sisters, indeed he is risen.