Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. He came back to life and life flourishes. He destroyed the separation between heaven and earth. 

He gave this new possibility to everyone, not only to those who believe in him, but even every human being, everyone who exists in this world is now subject to this reality that the heavens are near. And we see that he came down to Hades and all those spirits which were in those Hades, they were presented this opportunity to embrace his light. And many of them, almost all of them came out.

And the saints, they arose, the resurrection began. This common resurrection is not just something that will happen in the end of the world. The common resurrection in Gospel of Matthew, we read, it has begun already. 

And now, in this new reality, this choice is ever more vivid. It's more radical. You either choose the Lord or you do not, you choose darkness.

But the whole reality of the whole world, even the underworld, everything has changed. Well, these bones of Hades, this separation of this world from the world in heavens was overthrown. However, there remained this unwillingness in many people to receive light, because they love the darkness more. 

They are attached, they stick to the darkness. You present them this opportunity, but they stick to the darkness, they turn away. And not just turn away, they try to make everything seem as though there is no light.

They want to drag you into this despondency. They want to drag you into this materialism or some kind of fake spirituality. And they are trying to block the heavens.

This is the herald of Babylon, she's trying to block the heavens. And at the end of times, at the very last times that we have probably reached already, of what? Of this world, not of the world created by God. Because the world has been created, it will exist, one way or another. 

But the world that we live in now, at this moment, is going to end. And the closer it's coming to its end, the more the situation seems like it was before Christ coming. For some reason, you see, the beast of the apocalypse, one of his heads was wounded, but at the end, it's sort of healed, cured. 

And he knows that he's got the limited time. He's also going to that abyss for eternal condemnation. So before he gets there, he's nervous. 

He wants to drag as many people as he can, so that he won't be that lonely there. So we experience this right now. We live in these times. 

And if we choose Christ, the more we choose light, the more darkness becomes visible to us, the more evident it becomes to us. First of all, let us see what the Apostle John has to tell us about this. First epistle of John, chapter 2, 15 to 17. 

Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. 

And the world passes away, and the lust thereof. But he that does the will of God abideth forever. He has the eternal life. 

He is immortal. We are all called to immortality, brothers and sisters. So this choice has to be very evident for us. 

And today I want to say about this spirit of this world, that it's all choosing death. Death has sway in this world. I hope you can notice that also. 

And there is nothing really to love in this world. There is nothing really substantial, because everything substantial is in God, but just fake. Just this corruption, moral defilement, and death, and despondency. 

Well, just to finish it off, because the world preaches freedom, enjoy your life. And those people, they are happy, like gay people. Gay means happy. 

They are happy, all those perverts. We can read Peter, Second Epistle of Apostle Peter, chapter 2, 19. While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the slaves of corruption. 

For of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought to slavery, enslaved. You see, this world is enslaved by all these passions, all these desires, all these fears. Everything that you read in the newspapers, that you listen to those bloggers, that you see in advertisements, that you see in those social platforms, in these games, in these chat rooms, all of that is just fruitless, empty corruption and bondage and slavery. 

So, just to make this distinction more vivid, more evident, I want to just bring some examples about death. How is this world is obsessed, is encompassed, is swayed by death, if you will. As opposed to the kingdom of Christ, which we are called to enter in. 

This fallen world, this fallen world is obsessed about what? About, okay, most people now obsessed about politics or economics. Well, some people don't care. They live in their own little worlds, but they are still obsessed by mama. 

Well, let's begin with the politicians. The politicians, they are just role players, just playing for you, pretending this is a good guy, this is a bad guy. We have this, this, we have that, and all that spectacle. 

And the goal behind all this is death. This meat grinder has to run and it has to become bigger. The whole world goes to hell, it all goes to this war, chaos. 

This is the goal behind all those peace talks, this and that. Don't believe these things. It's all just going there. 

Behind it is just to give people, oh, this or that, like on that, you know, tournament, soccer or a football game or something. Behind it is just the goal to get your soul, okay, to get your life even. Of course, to get your resources, money, to make you starve and kill each other, make you lose your image of God, even the basic human likeness. 

We have those people, economists, okay. They are obsessed about how to run the economy in this war situation, okay, in this tariff situation, okay, how to basically make the world run despite war. In essence, okay, how to still keep making money, even though the war, the death is going on. 

The people are brainwashed and the war is going on, how we can still make money. And as a matter of fact, people who are better at it, like the bankers and others, they are concerned about how to get all the resources and all the power while the whole world is going to poverty. I'm not talking about everyone, but majority. 

And the businessmen, okay, also different, but mainly, like if you go to some business courses, they will teach you how to make more money during the war, using this world in war, how you can still make profit, so you can benefit on the war. So they proclaim death, they have that sway of death on their faces. You look at the faces of those politicians in the news, they are all about death. 

I don't know if you can feel it or not, but it's all about death. And how about the church leaders? Okay, most religious leaders, not just church, most religious leaders are trying to sort of find some explanation to all that and basically that it can keep running. Oh, it's the will of God, oh, it's this and that. 

Okay, just, okay, yes, like morphine, like opium, okay, trying to make people not think about it, don't face it and not pretend that, okay, this is the way things are supposed to be, so just, okay, just be part of it, okay. Well, I'm not calling for revolution, okay, I'm calling for the, to embrace the kingdom of Christ, brothers and sisters. What the technocrats, of course, what do they want? They want people to be deprived of their inner soul, to become just robots, zombies, to just be an economical, biophysical functions, okay, and just to be part of this whole system that they're building. 

They don't want you to have your soul, you to have faith, to live, to have spiritual freedom, no, they want you to be enslaved and eventually die, okay, or go to poverty or die out. Okay, so it's all about death, technocracy, it's all about that, and those who develop all kinds of technologies, mainly, I'm not saying everyone, but mainly they are for death. Drones, this and that, missiles, surveillance, okay, it's all related to that. 

All kinds of entertainment, developing games, Hollywood, those actors, showmen, okay, just so that you can sort of relax and find some kind of surrogate instead of finding God, instead of finding solution, salvation in the Lord, they want you to find salvation in playing games or metaverse or somewhere else, social platforms, just waste your time in there, okay, be brainwashed and be destroyed psychologically, physically, morally, it's all about death. All the TV shows, all those speakers, most bloggers, they all just want you to become part of the spectacle, they want you to be emotionally drawn into some war or some agenda, tariffs, wars, I don't know, environment, economics, you name it, they want you to be part of that, okay, to be swayed by that logic of this world, by this ocean, those waves of that world, the energy of that world, just to be part of that cabalistic singularity, if you will, that is coming. So, I can go on and on, I can talk a lot about these things, but I don't want, because I don't want to proclaim death, I just want you to feel that, okay, there is a choice, what do you choose? What do you choose? Do you choose the kingdom of Christ? Do you choose to be separate from all this? This world will be like those, you know, pigs, okay, the Lord came to those people of Gadarit and those pigs with demons, they ran from the Persepolis, they all drowned in that Sea of Galilee, and those who care about them, okay, those who will serve mama, those who are concerned about this world and who are part of this world, its spirit, they all will run behind those pigs and will also drown in that ocean, that is the only path, brothers and sisters, that is the only path for this world.

But those who choose Christ, those who decide to stay with Christ, what do they do? They've departed on the boat, they took off with Christ. Yes, it's more risky, maybe, you go on a boat somewhere, but you are with Christ, you are with the Lord, you are with chastity, holiness, prayer, repentance, peace of heart, love, self-sacrifice, ministry, rejoicing in his kingdom, finding refuge in prayer, in repentance, in studying the Word of God, this is your choice, or it's not, okay, you are the one to choose, but this choice has to be made, brothers and sisters, we do have to make this choice, it has to become evident every day, every day that we are facing, that we live, we have to make this choice. If you go by the flow, okay, sorry, you'll be with the world in one way or another, but you will be with the world and you will perish. 

May the Lord keep us away from this, may he awaken our hearts to love him, to love the prayer, to be eager in searching the kingdom of heaven, knocking into his kingdom, craving for this kingdom, expecting this kingdom to come, it is coming closer and closer day by day, brothers and sisters, and at that point the world will be craving for Antichrist, don't be fooled, they will be, that will be the only, they will be possessed by this great desire for Antichrist and his kingdom, and it will look nice, okay, at least in the beginning. So, if we don't make this choice now, which path we go, eventually we'll end up there, and don't be fooled, those fake preachers, okay, who are bringing people to destruction, they talk about Christ from morning till night, every day, okay, don't be fooled, it's not about talking nor talking about Christ, they can be talking about him all the time, but at the end of the day, this is where it all ends up, becoming slave of mammon, and it is now that you need to learn how to distinguish these things, and not to be fooled, not to be misled by all those intricacies and spiritual deceit and seduction, which will get worse and worse, may the Lord keep us in his grace, give us his blessing, and keep us in his kingdom, I mean, Christ is risen, brothers and sisters, indeed he's risen.