Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. During these days of Pascha, we think deeply about union with Christ. Whenever we have this union with true God, it will be something evident.

You will not mistake it for anything else. And if you don't have that experience yet, if you don't have that feeling yet, most likely that you don't yet have this union with Christ. So now it is good to think about what is the direction, what is that path, what is that key to that kingdom. 

And today I want to say about the Divine Liturgy and how it is helping us, how it is fundamentally necessary for us to be one church and in union with the body of Christ, be united with the heart, with Christ himself. And how also, for some reasons, it can prevent people, some people, they are stumbling at the Liturgy. They cannot overcome, they cannot understand, they don't have that intuition into this mystery, which is hidden, which is hidden in the Liturgy. 

And today I want to talk about both about the issues, the difficulties, why, where are they coming from, and about the essence of the Divine Liturgy and how do we unite our participation, our liturgical life with our individual ascetic life of prayer and learning the Word of God and growing in the virtue of the Gospel. Well, Divine Liturgy is, in the essence, it is the supper, this mystical supper that the Lord had with his disciples. And we participate in this supper, as he said, that do this in remembrance of me. 

And the Apostle Paul is saying, we do the Holy Eucharist to proclaim the death of Christ. And, of course, his resurrection and his ascension and his glorious second coming. So, without this union as a Church, we will lack, we will not be able to fully gain this union with Christ just by individual prayer, by deeds of virtue. 

These are all good, but they are not enough, okay? This is not enough, because he said, whoever will not eat my flesh and drink my blood, he will not have life in him. So, we do want to have this life. And today I want to talk about this key to this life and why it is so difficult for many people, even for priests who are doing that liturgy sometimes, okay? And for people, for people both who are outside, who have not yet found their path to the Church life, okay? Maybe even they're baptized Orthodox, but they are not coming for some reason. 

Only Paschal celebration every Sunday. And also people who are coming, even those who do come very often are still not fully participating and really appreciating what is going on in the Divine Liturgy. And this is why it's so quick to lose this grace. 

And after receiving Holy Communion very often, a day or two, three maximum, and it's all back to this filthy apostatic life, daily routine. So, today I want talk about this. And to begin, I want to bring up the parable. 

Something, some talent, well, let's say music, okay? Let's say music. Music is something beautiful by itself, okay? It can bring great inspiration and great benefits to humans, okay? If it's a good music, of course, okay? Well, now we don't talk about the moral aspect of it, but just music by itself is something which is nice, okay? And when you hear it, you understand, okay? Most people understand, not all, but most people would appreciate nice music, okay? However, if you approach, and let's say you want to understand this music, well, you'll go take classes, okay? And they'll tell you, okay, here are the notes, this is how it's recorded, okay? And here are the composers, and this, and this, and this, and these are the types of music that there can be, and this is how they composed it, and there is all this different terminology, the theory of music, and other stuff, and you'll say, what? I thought it's just something beautiful, and that's it. But it's so complicated, and it's really so hard to learn, and, okay, no, no, it's not for me, it's not for me, so I don't want to have anything to do with this, I'll go, I don't know, I'll just do something else, okay? I play computer games, okay? Because I understand that, you just kill someone there, okay? I don't really, okay, music, classical music or something, it's too complicated, it's too sophisticated, okay? It's for maybe some chosen people who are melomans, okay? They will be... So, you'll close this, the whole world, it'll be closed for you, because you've approached from the wrong angle. 

As a matter of fact, even a child can become, you know, really well versed in all kinds of classical music. A child, maybe even better than an adult, to feel many things which an adult already doesn't feel within the music, and he can tell you so much about it. This is just a parable, brothers and sisters, because something similar happens with the divine liturgy. 

Divine liturgy by itself is the way and the only way I can tell you into this union with incarnated Christ, incarnated Word of God, Logos. There is no other way. Prayer, yes, it's important. 

Deeds of mercy, yes, but it's not enough. It can only bring you to this door, these gates, but to enter into the kingdom you will need to receive the resurrected Christ. So, the divine liturgy contains this. 

In the very ancient divine liturgy it was very straightforward. Every movement, okay, it went according to the set rules, because the Lord has done the Last Supper based on the sequence and the the rites, the order of the Paschal Seder of the Old Testament, of the Jewish rite. And this was the liturgy. 

And later the apostles, they were doing the same. He came, resurrected Christ, came to them on that Sunday of resurrection, of his resurrection, and then after another week, Sunday, and a few more Sundays, he was coming, and then they decided, okay, yes, we need to do it in exactly this way. Okay, well, we came and the content of this meeting is him, and we partake of him, and this is the content of this divine service.

So, they have done this in this way, very intimate, but liturgical way. And as more people came, and some people, they were not very eager, so let's put it that way, and it was important to teach them, okay, what is the faith, and to inspire them, and to give them motivation. So, the Church, with the gifts of the Holy Spirit, with the inspiration of God, has enriched this gathering with many rites and chanting, antiphonal chanting. 

It was similar to the chanting of angels in the sky, in the heavens, and the Divine Liturgy was bringing people up to the heavens, okay, it was enriched with many elements which uncovered the mystical nature of the heavens. But, of course, it remained the same, in a nutshell, supper of the Lord. However, because of these elements that were added with the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, these elements could be copied, and you could do this in this sequence, use the same chanting, use the same procedures, just having learned the instruction, you do this, this, this, this, this, and maybe you are low, maybe even you don't believe in God, okay, maybe you are even atheist, or heretic, or something, but you can just copy everything, okay. 

So, this brought this effect that some priests, when they lost their faith, they could still do the Liturgy, but it would just be this sequence. And the people who participated in this, also, some of them, even no matter how many elements you have, they would still not be inspired to follow Christ. So, this works both ways, you see, and that's why it's sometimes so difficult to change once we are fixed in some way of doing Liturgy, to change anything, because if the priest wants to do it in some other way, the people, they cannot follow, okay, or the people, they want to follow, but the priest is unable to do it, okay. 

So, but all of that can be overcome, brothers and sisters, with the help of the Lord, with His guidance, all this can overcome. So, what I'm talking now about, people who've experienced Divine Liturgy, they know this feeling that you sort of come, everything is done in a sequence, everything is holy, but you miss the, you don't really follow it, okay, you don't really understand what's the key. It's all holy, yes, I pray, but what is this all about? And this makes it difficult, but even if you don't understand that, if you have your intuition, you will understand the Lord is here, salvation is here, the portal to the Kingdom of Heaven is here, it's just a matter of me penetrating and finding this key, and today I want to talk about this key, this is what my purpose today is. 

So, to make, as I said, for the priest and for the people to really live and experience this mystical supper of the Lord is to have spiritual life. This is where the asceticism, individual asceticism, individual virtual chasicasm, finding the Lord, finding peace from above in your heart, okay, comes in play. They help each other, the Divine Liturgy, your participation in the Divine Liturgy and your individual asceticism, prayer, fasting, fight with the evil, with passions, this is where they come together, and then both gain life. 

So, the Church is a great treasury, this is a great treasury, it's like, you know, a library of Alexandria, okay, at some point there was a huge, huge library, okay, which had millions of scrolls and, you know, it was wisdom accumulated over thousands of years of humanity, but you could come there, you can see all that, but I don't know Greek, I cannot read it, you just maybe see it, you, I don't know, make photos, if you have a camera at that time, and you go, and that's it. So, the similar thing happens with the Liturgy, there is a great depth of fruits of the Holy Spirit and wisdom within the Liturgy, but now it's a matter of us finding that key, living through the Liturgy, having Divine Liturgy live in us, no matter where we go, what we do, then we will gain the access to this great treasury, and you will be extracting treasures, and you will be enriching your experience with the Lord, it's all about your union with the Lord, it's not about growing in some knowledge, self-development, like would be maybe in the library, this is all about deepening your relationship, growing in love, growing in virtue, growing in wisdom, in Christ. Okay, so now we are here in Taiwan, we are doing several different Liturgies, the one we do on Sundays is standard, that we are now coming to this time that we've embraced, but we also on the weekdays, we do ancient way of doing the Liturgy, which helps us to understand better what it's all about, what's the core, and pretty much only people who are really into spiritual life and into prayer, they come on that Liturgy, and it is very inspiring, enlightening, and we see how there is this use of all these rites that came, that it's not just some, like Protestants, they will say, oh just the ancient was good, but later it's all from men, no, we will see how this also comes from the Holy Spirit, His guidance. 

We are looking for different approaches, and generally it worked very well, especially when people also exercise hesychasm and individual prayer, and they really are deep into reading the Bible, penetrating the Word of God, and growing in humbleness, in piety. So, I really hope that both the priests, they can penetrate deeper into the Liturgy, and not stay just on that, you know, sequence, okay, this is how it's supposed to do, and how to make it more beautiful through nicer chanting, this and that, decorations. But also the people would not be, would not just stay on that superficial level of participation.

There is one saint, Saint Isidore Pelluciot, he lived in the 4th and 5th centuries, he was a disciple of Saint John Chrysostom, and at his time the churches already became bigger, and had all kinds of decorations, icons, and silver, and all kinds of things. But he also remembered, he knew about this catacomb church, okay, this church that was persecuted by these emperors not long ago, at that time, and he said, I would rather sacrifice all this beauty for this spirit, for that strong spirit of love and the dedication that those Christians had who lived in those times. Yes, we have this beauty, but it's nothing wrong with the beauty, it's not because we have beauty, but I would rather sacrifice this for that, okay, brothers and sisters. 

Of course, this doesn't mean that, okay, all our churches has to become simple and ugly, no, no, okay, as a matter of fact, they've decorated those martyrs in those early days of Christianity, they've decorated as much as they could, at that moment, that was the most they could do. They've tried to decorate, they have nice paintings and many things inside the church, however, it was very simple, because all the time they got persecuted, they were running, they, okay, it was very difficult survival for them. So, may we always set the right priorities, and wherever you go, if you go on pilgrimage to some churches, this is what to look for, don't be, okay, looking just, okay, here, nice photos, this century, that century, this relics, no, seek for the spiritual life, okay, who here, who is the pastor, okay, who is the spiritual leader, what can I hear from people who love Christ, who live by prayer, this is something to look for, how to have, you know, because once you are on the spiritual path, everyone who is, is supporting each other, okay, we give shoulder to each other, okay, here, you got weaker, I give you some advice, I give you some, okay, testimony, I get weaker, I'm lacking something, I'm lacking knowledge, but you know better, you studied more, okay, you support me here.

So, this is very important, okay, but this has to be about spirituality, about our love, our pursuit for Christ, our strengthening in our testimony, okay, being firm in this union with Him, being decisive in cutting the world, in mortifying this carnal old self, and living for Christ. So, this is what to look for, brothers and sisters, may the Lord during these paschal days give you this zeal, this eagerness in pursuing the kingdom of heaven, into uncovering these mysteries of this kingdom and of the piety, this mystery of piety that Apostle Paul is talking about, and to grow, to grow in faith, to grow in Christian virtue, and to be victorious in whatever you have to go through, ministering our Lord and following His path. I mean, Christ is risen, brothers and sisters, indeed, He's risen.