Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. We now live in these paschal times of celebrating the Lord's resurrection, and we feel this closeness of his kingdom, and we think about spiritual gifts. We think about the gifts that he gives to us, and the gifts that he mentioned himself, that seek first and foremost the kingdom of heaven, and that God the Father will give those gifts of the Spirit to those who ask for them. 

And what are these gifts? Are they necessary? Why are we lacking these gifts? Are we lacking these gifts? Today I want to say about this, and of course we are lacking these gifts badly. Just as an example, in the ancient times, for a priest, he could not do liturgy if he doesn't have inspiration from God. There were no books, no prayer books, no service books. 

So, the whole Eucharist, all the prayers that were done for the consecration of the bread and wine, and for receiving this grace, and receiving Christ, living Christ, all these prayers were done by inspiration. That was a great gift that was required. Without it, you could not do liturgy in those days. 

And now we have this safety net. This is something I've talked about on my last video. But the people, the same who participate in the ancient liturgy, if there was no union among these people, they could not participate. 

There would not be a church. And it was unthinkable for someone not to receive the Holy Communion during the divine liturgy, because he's not worthy. He said that. 

So, of course, there are so many gifts that the early church possessed. They had the gift of immediate healing. Okay, pray and somebody's getting healed.

They had the gift of testimony. They came to some villages, to some cities, and all of a sudden, the whole village would convert to Christianity, because of the word, because they felt this is coming from God. It's not something else. 

And other gifts, like prophecies, like remembering the whole scripture by heart, the whole prophet Isaiah, the whole Psalms, book of Psalms. These are gifts. But now you can say, well, maybe it's not so necessary.

You believe, okay, and you're just regular as everyone else. But yes, you believe in Christ, you avoid big sins, you will be saved. Maybe there is not much need for some gifts.

Well, there is a gift, there is a need. Basically, it's required that we have spiritual gifts. And I will explain that. 

And now, even some basic abilities that make responsible man or woman, we are lacking. Some people are thinking about the gifts, but okay, just basic things. For example, if we're talking about parish life, basic thing would be to clean the church, to throw away garbage. 

You know, I'm busy, sorry, maybe the priest will do it. Okay, I'm not accusing anyone, but I just want to share with you. Okay, when we are talking about holy gifts, and then we see the reality, okay, and people don't want to prepare for the chanting, people, some people don't want to read the gospel, never read the gospel, come to church, but never read gospel, never pray at home. 

Okay, and sometimes you hear, what are you talking about? What are the gifts of the Spirit, even just these very basic things. Even Buddhists, they prepare for their activities very well. Or atheists, okay, they are sometimes much more eager to have their, I don't know, idols, monuments clean and neat, and that they chant their hymns much more professionally, okay, etc. 

Okay, dress well for their activities, well, we would say, ah, it doesn't matter, I just have my casual clothes, t-shirt, I don't care. So, and now I'm not talking about things like caring for others, okay, caring for, say, we have tea together, to bring something for the tea, okay, many people, they don't care. So, now I'm talking about some basic things.

People now don't want to read books, no, don't want to study, they listen, and sometimes even they don't listen to the spiritual stuff, they listen to, I don't know, some, I don't know, entertaining things which are sinful, okay, etc., etc. So, we are now talking about not that we are zero and we do need to grow spiritually, we are below, okay, we are below, myself included, in many ways, okay. So, this is one thing, that we need to set goals, if we want to change this, we should not be, you know, too far separated from reality, okay, now we want prophecies, but we don't even want to clean the church, okay, but we want some prophecies, okay. 

So, we need to begin from small things, if we want to really change, and if we are Christians, the Lord will change us, we should not say, I am like this from childhood, and everybody else is like this, so I'm fine, no, okay, we have responsibility, each and every one of us. And now, regarding the spiritual gifts, let us read the passage, just one verse, it's 1 Corinthians 12, 31. But have a great zeal for greater gifts, and I shall show unto you a way more excellent, and a more excellent way, okay. 

In 1 Corinthians, Apostle Paul, he is scolding those lousy Corinthians, Corinthian Christians, because of many things, okay, maybe you know, I hope, okay, and he wants them to change, he wants them to repent, okay, and there it's closer to the end of the epistle, he's telling them about spiritual gifts, and he says you have to desire, be zealous, pursue with zeal those spiritual gifts, because this is necessary as long as you are Christian. And also, Saint John Chrysostom, he says that in that passage, there is a, he is hinting towards their own fault, that they are guilty themselves that they don't have spiritual gifts, because very often, we think it's not my fault, it's, yes, in the ancient times, many spiritual things, but nowadays, nobody has it, so I don't have it, so it's fine, I'm like everyone else. No, it doesn't work that way. 

We are, and each and every one of us, is guilty of not having spiritual gifts, brothers and sisters. Let this really go deep into our hearts. And then he says, I will show you the more excellent way, actually it's not a more, it's the more excellent way, the way more excellent, okay, there is one way, it's not that he will show them different methods, no, it's the way, okay, so he is like intriguing him, intriguing them, because they would be thinking, oh, I want gifts, I want to speak tongues, I want to have prophecies, I want to have healing ability, or chase demons, or something else, I want that, so he is intriguing them, but he says only one way, and what is that way? In the following chapters, he is talking about love. 

It is love. Without love, any gift is going to harm you. It's no use, only harm. 

Let's say, you don't have love, and now you have prophecies, like Saint John the Apostle, okay, you would feel that you are special, okay, every day you have a new prophecy, and everybody doesn't, everybody else doesn't, well, you will have a special place in the church, and everybody will be coming to you, asking you this and that, so these gifts would be made, would separate, would split the community, because there will be somebody who has this gift, another that gift, only when there is love among everyone, that's when the gifts are given, and make sense, okay, because then they are bringing the church, the whole church, okay, they are all used for growth in faith, both spiritually in the hearts of everyone, and in the world, okay, other people will see, and will glorify God, and will come and convert to faith, seeing how great is this love among true Christians. So, it is easy to say, okay, love one another, but people say, how can I love someone I either love or I don't love? You cannot tell me, love him, and then I, okay, okay, I love him, no, it doesn't work that way, but from our faith, we see that this is what the Lord tells us, he tells us, go and love, okay, not that I hope that you will love, no, he says, go and love, so if you don't love, okay, you need to study, force yourself, okay, find ways, begin with some small things, help others, okay, just have some discipline, how you behave, what you do, okay, don't just care for yourself, don't care about taking something, care about giving, sharing, sacrificing yourselves. So, this is the direction, this is the direction, brothers and sisters, and this is the essence, and there is no other way, we cannot become, we cannot be saved by ourselves, we can only be saved, we can only grow in faith, in the church, within the community, within this mutual care and ministry. 

Now, there was one old lady, she said, I love to go to church, I love being in the church so much, I love that feeling in the church, especially when there is no people in the church, this is crazy, this is nonsense, brothers and sisters, the church is people, okay, it's not buildings, it's not this atmosphere, candles, this and that, the church is the people, and you love to be in the church when there is no people, so, well, maybe also because people who come, they don't have love, and this is why when they come, you feel even worse, okay, so it all, you know, when there is lack of love, this alienation happens, it is getting worse and worse, okay, it's like this evil cycle, so we need to stop, this cycle has to stop in us, okay, on me, okay, if everything is going that way, it will stop on me, okay, no matter whether I'm talking about spiritual gifts or just this overall degradation of people, that people don't want to read, they don't care, they become more and more, okay, lack discipline, lack responsibility, everything is going that way, it's gonna stop on me, I will love discipline, I will have, I will love to work, to study, to, okay, do things, okay, I'm not gonna follow this, the whole, you know, flow, and especially the spiritual life and our ministry, testimony of our love towards others. Very often we may feel that our efforts don't bring fruit, whether it's my personal spiritual life, I don't change, I have sins and maybe even getting worse, nor other people whom I hope can change, my relatives or people whom I care about, to whom maybe you're a teacher, you teach them, they don't change, they don't become better, okay, but the Lord wants us to go through this experience of alienation, of the experience of everybody turning away, okay, because he himself went through this experience and he even felt that God the Father has abandoned him, so he was asked to also have that experience, okay, that whatever you do doesn't bring fruit and people are turning away and nobody loves God, nobody cares, okay, everybody fails, everybody sins, and as though God is gone, there is no God, he wants you to have that experience, because he himself went through it, but at the end he brings us to joy of seeing the fruits, you will see, you will reap those fruits, if you can go through that, if you don't slip into despondency or apostasy, you will see these fruits, both in your spiritual life and in other people, and these fruits are much more important, maybe on this scale it's not a lot, maybe just one person will be influenced, and to yourself, but for the Lord this is more important, the whole big agendas and news and politics, economics and this and that, for the Lord, these fruits, spiritual fruits, is the purpose why the world still exists, if there will be no fruits, there is no need for this world anymore, okay, so let us bring these fruits, dear brothers and sisters. Another thing, the last thing I want to say about the spiritual gifts today, is that very often why we lose them is because we are not preparing for them. 

For example, we, let's say, we receive the Holy Communion, we repent, we pray, we have cleansed our conscience, our soul, and now we receive the Holy Communion, we are joy, we have this joy, we are with the Lord, okay, we have this Paschal celebration, we love everyone, okay, we are flying, but after a day or two, this happens, that happens, and it's gone, and we're again angry, we're again complaining, we are again empty, we accuse people, we have despondency, we have our passions, our old desires all wake, have woken up, and it's all, we've lost it, okay, we've spoiled it, we've ruined it. Why? Why does that happen? Well, this happens, this is, you know, similar to Apostle Paul, he went on the waters after the Lord, and then he saw that this is water, he wanted to control, he said, he told himself, this can't be, cannot be, I cannot control, this is water, I cannot walk on the water, and once he thought that, yes, then he could not walk, and he was drowning. So, the same thing happens with us, brothers and sisters, we feel that this is coming from the Lord, but why, how me, why me, I cannot control, I want to keep it myself, but no, this is not how it's done, it comes from the Lord, and you just need to receive it, okay, you don't want to have control over it, you have to create all the conditions for it, but not, you won't control it, it's coming from the Lord, you have to be humble, full of love, not have any proudness about it, and and see it as a great treasure, not something which is just given, yeah, it's just something given, natural, oh, this is a gift, to see that it's a gift, we have to really crave this gift, this is what Apostle Paul is saying, be craving this gift, be zealous about it, and then once you have it, you will not lose it that quickly, that easily, this is like learning a new language, if you were dreaming about it, and, you know, expecting how I can use it for this, for that, you will not lose it, if you learn it, you will not lose it, but if it was just because of some circumstances, and you happen to learn a new language, you will forget it, most likely, so these spiritual gifts, we need to prepare the chamber of our soul, okay, and our way of life, how we live, what places do we go to, do we love this quiet life, do we love being together with the Lord, talking to Him in silence, do we love participating in Eucharist, in divine liturgy, do we love preserving our mind in the study of the Holy Scripture and the Word of God, if this is the way we live, if this becomes the sort of conditions that we create, this chamber that we adorn for the visitor, for the Lord to come and sit in this chamber, He will come and sit in this chamber, and you will live in this grace, will be preserved in this grace, and you will gain great spiritual gifts, and it's not just some bonus, this is something which is so basic, that without it we are not really Christians, may the Lord give us this visitation, and may He preserve us in His grace, and in this paschal joy, in this union with Him every day of our life, and may our ministry and testimony for His name bring great fruits, and be pleasing to Him, and bring many other people to this joy of His salvation.

Amen. Christ is risen, brothers and sisters, indeed He is risen.