Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. During these paschal times, we think about our union with Christ, and we discover that there is something which is breaking this union. And this broken bond comes from some kind of heresy. 

Heresy is our lack of right faith and right prayer. There is something went wrong. Some kind of virus comes in between me and God. 

Sometimes it's just my sin. I just choose some kind of betrayal. I do some things which are against the will of God. 

But sometimes this is so subtle that I don't really notice what's going on, what's wrong. And after some time, I'm already off, very far. So today I want to talk about modernism, brothers and sisters. 

Usually we think that, okay, we have the orthodox faith, everything within the church, the orthodox church, should be orthodox, should be right, should be good. Because outside we have all kinds of heresies. We have those sects, we have the Catholic, Protestant, other sects. 

It's all outside there, somewhere in the darkness. But we are fine, because we are orthodox. Well, if we look at the history of the whole church, of the whole church history, we will see that most heresies, they are developing within the church. 

There is some time of this heresy evolving before it splits away, before the church is able to come together and say, okay, this is not church, this is something else. And this is why we should not be surprised when we see now within the orthodox church, which is the church, the church of Christ, when we see some unhealthy things. And we do see unhealthy things, okay? Let's say in some places you'll come, you'll see dancing in the church on some Christmas or other celebration. 

You know, this secular dancing, this is a blasphemy. Or you may see all this ecumenical stuff, which is also mind-blowing. It's against the canons, against our faith, this betrayal of the basic faith that there is one church.

And many other things. Okay, today I don't want to criticize people or just to list some phenomena. Okay, this, this, this. 

I don't want you to just see the phenomena. It's not about phenomena, it's about the spirit which is behind this phenomena. And we need to learn to discern this spirit. 

For example, also now in some sermons, you can hear a lot of this psychoanalysis. Okay, you have some lack of self-esteem, you have this, you have that, and this is why you need this, you need that. And the priest will not say nothing about the Holy Fathers, their understanding of the gospel, and repentance. 

They, almost nothing. Okay, so it will be different spirit. You'll feel it once you know that there is this problem. 

And once you are spiritually eager and you, you really have this experience of being in Christ, in his truth, you will be more and more capable of discerning these things. Okay, this comes through vigilance, through mortifying our old self, through a constant pursuit of the truth, through studying the word of God, through prayer, through deeds of mercy, through Holy Eucharist. Okay, this has to be there, but today I want to just indicate some things. 

Okay, unless you have spiritual life, you will, even knowing this, you will slip into some kind of alienation from God. Okay, so what is common behind all these different phenomena that I call modernism? Okay, the common thing is Gnosticism, what I've spoke about in other videos. The Gnosticism, it would have some feeling that the new things are better. 

And also, returning to the most fundamental first principle is what is solution. So this Protestant is very, it's very Gnostic, because they think that only in the very beginning that was right. But now everything, later it was all fake, all false. 

And also, in future, we make it better and better and better. So now, okay, guitar, now people like guitar, okay, let's use a guitar. So it's very much worldly and influenced by these things. 

So this is in common. And friendship with this world, that's what the Lord said, don't be friends with this world, don't love this world, and what is in this world, you are in this world, but you don't belong to this world. Now during Pascha, we need to feel that we belong to some other reality. 

It's another kingdom. It's not what this external secular world is all about. It's about something else.

It's different, has different breadth, has different logic, different agenda, I would say, which we read about a lot in the Revelation of John. But this is another topic. So coming back to this modernism, it is also coming from fear to be different. 

For example, well, you know, as a priest, I criticized what's wrong with priests, okay, but lay people have also a lot of problems, faithful. For example, having some fear to put the cross when you're outside in some restaurant or somewhere, or with the relatives, that they would feel that, okay, you only believe all your Christians. Yes, yes, I believe in Jesus Christ, I love him. 

Do you want to know more about him? I'll tell you. This should be our reaction. But we have some, okay, maybe it's not proper, maybe it's this and that. 

You can feel that spirit, okay? I can tell you about priests. I go to some orthodox countries. Last time I went to Moscow, you know, we have more than a thousand priests. 

I think now it's about two thousand, about a thousand churches and about two thousand priests in one city, okay? And even there, they would be afraid of wearing their cassock outside. In the past, it was normal. Everybody, all the priests, you would see on the street quite a few priests. 

But now you come on the big street, you come in the center of the city, in the market, you don't see any priests, because they all wear just regular clothes. It became like a norm. If you're a Moscow priest, you wear just secular clothes outside.

Well, this is the spirit of this world, okay? Because you can pretend that you're just like everyone else, so you can speak like everyone else, you don't get questions from people on the street, okay? You can relax. Sorry, you need to relax from being in union with Christ? Maybe you are not with him any time, even when you're praying in the church, if you want to be relaxed when you are outside. So, it's really this double standard, okay? In the church, we're super witnesses, but outside we're something else. 

It doesn't work that way. So, this brings us where? This brings us to the disciples of Christ before Pentecost. They were afraid to witness Christ. 

They were afraid of these Jews, this fear of the Jews. They were hiding in those rooms, and they did not know what to do, okay? So, this is what is happening to us now, if we don't have union with Christ, if we don't have a healthy spiritual life. Because of this fear of the Jews, we become worldly, we become a communist, okay? Having said that, I also want to say a few words about the opposite problem. 

The opposite problem is fundamentalist, this Pharisee spirit. Some people would be very radical, but they are particular about small details, okay? Here you have to say these words, you have to put cross three times. If it's one time, it's not enough. 

Three times, this, this, this, okay? They know all the canons, and as soon as you are off in some canon, okay, they're gonna tell you, you go to hell. Okay, there was one woman, she came to the church in the morning to receive the Holy Eucharist, and she was very thirsty. She drank a little bit of water, and another came and said, you will die. 

If you receive Holy Communion now, you will die. That's the Pharisee spirit. This is Pharisee spirit, brothers and sisters.

Pretending to be conservative, pretending to be, okay, holding the truth fundamental, but there is no love, there is no union with Christ. You don't know where is truth. You think the truth is in the books? No. 

The truth is alive. It's Christ himself. If you're not with him, if you don't love people, sorry, you can be as fundamental, as conservative as you want, but you won't enter the kingdom of God, because you don't love Christ. 

Okay, so this is another problem that we have, and some people, they have this image of orthodoxy. Orthodoxy is that. It's this Pharisee, okay, we are shiny, we are the best, and etc. 

We hold on to old stuff, okay, in terms of design, in terms of building structure. If there is no life, there is no love, there is no union of spirit with the apostles, you can have very traditional, ancient design, icons, prayers, canons. It will all be for nothing. 

It will all be just antiquarian stuff, okay, museum. You will have a museum, you don't have a living church. So, brothers and sisters, I hope what I have said today will not bring you to accusations, or to despondency, why we have so many problems within the church, and maybe you look around, you see it's maybe half of what you see in orthodoxy is modernist, and another half is fundamentalist, this Pharisee, and where is the true love? If you seek, you'll find it, okay, and you will receive it even directly from Christ, but within the church, okay. 

If you don't feel love in the community that you go to, you have to start from yourself. Have love yourself, express it, self-sacrifice, love, and things will be changing, you will see it, okay. Another example of this fake humbleness and conservatism. 

Some people will say we don't receive Holy Communion every Sunday, because we are very humble, because we are not ready, because this is very great holy sacrament, so we need to prepare very well, we need to read all the big canons, so we do it once a month, once in two months, okay. If they would be really radical conservatives, they would know that actually there is a canon that says that if you don't receive Holy Communion on the liturgy which you participate, you will be excommunicated from the church. This is much more ancient and much more authoritative canon, holy canon, that they should know, and by that canon they have to come every time like soldiers, you know, to receive Holy Communion, otherwise they will be excommunicated. 

So, of course, we don't want that, we don't want soldiers, okay, we don't want robots in the church, we want people who love Christ, who participate in the Holy Ghost every Sunday, because they love Christ, not because of compliance with some holy canons. This is the goal, brothers and sisters, this is the goal. When you see that now there are some things within the church which are not in line with that love and with the, you know, you have to know that all the problems we have within the church is, let's say, second degree sickness, but everywhere else in these sects it is fourth degree, it's mortal, it won't be healed. 

Individuals, yes, they could repent and they can find their way, but overall those sects, they will not repent. May the Lord keep us from all these delusions, help us prepare. We now, by now understanding these things, I really hope that you find this union with living Christ and you can discern these things yourself without, you know, my detailed explanations. 

And we do need this, we do need this preparation, because the Lord said, be vigilant, pray, lest you slip into some temptation and lest you miss that day, the day when he comes, or when the tribulation comes, or when the deception comes, big time. And most people will be deceived at that moment, including Orthodox Christians. In those times, okay, we have to rely on our union with Christ and not on some announcement, some, you know, I don't know, statements from the official institutions of the Church. 

No, no, it will be, it will be big, big challenge for every single Christian to remain in Christ, not to betray him at that moment. May the Lord keep us in his grace, keep us in this Paschal union, Paschal joy in him, and may his blessing be with every one of you. May we be brave and eager to live this love towards God the Father that Christ himself had. 

And this is the goal, that we establish this love, the same love as Christ has to God the Father. And we have this love, we have this ministry, we have this complete self-sacrifice for the sake of this love. May Christ give us such hearts, strengthen us on this path. 

I mean, Christ is risen, brothers and sisters.