Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Ascension of the Lord. 40 days after the Holy Pascha, the Holy Church celebrates the Ascension of the Lord, and another 10 days later we will celebrate the Pentecost. Well, it is quite easy to understand the meaning of the Pascha resurrection of the Lord, Pentecost also coming down of the Holy Spirit, birth of the Church.

However, Ascension is very often neglected and, you know, we don't, most of people don't really understand what is so special about it. Well, he was appearing to the Apostles here and there, talking to them, then all of a sudden he went up. Okay, where is he? Up or down or here or in the heart? It's not really clear. 

Okay, seems that he can be anywhere. Okay, so what's so special about him going up? Well, we will see that this event has tremendous meaning, is crucial for our faith. Okay, to begin with, first of all, let us see one place right after the Lord's resurrection.

On that very same day, remember, he appeared to Saint Mary Magdalene and first she saw two angels and then she turned around and she saw Jesus. Okay, let us read this. This is the Gospel of John 20, chapter 20, verse 16 to 17. 

Jesus saith unto her, Mary, she turned herself and saith unto him, Rabboni, which is to say, master. Jesus saith unto her, touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my father, but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my father and your father and to my God and your God. We see he mentions ascension twice here. 

So, this whole 40 days that he was meeting with them is basically he's preparing for the ascension. On that very first day, he already says, I'm ascending there, but not yet, so don't touch me. So, what does this mean? Why he tells her not to touch him, but on the same day, not on the same day, a week later, when Thomas will come, he tells him, come put your finger in my wounds. 

So, it's not really the problem of you cannot touch, you cannot touch and something is going to happen if you touch. No, there is something else. Also, in Matthew, we read that these mere bearing women, they were grasping his feet when they saw him. 

So, it's not that it's forbidden and there is some, I don't know, metaphysical reason not to touch him. To understand this, we need to go step by step. At the end, you will see what's the reason. 

We also read about ascension many times. Many times, the Lord is mentioning ascension in the Gospel of John and in Acts and in other Gospels. We can see that he's referring to ascension. 

Every time he tells that I came from my father and I'm going to my father, he's actually, he's talking about the ascension. And the communion is also related to this. Let us see. 

This is the Gospel of John, chapter 6, 56, 58, and also 62. Well, first, let's see. 56. 

He's talking with these Jews. And he tells them this very famous place. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me and I in him. 

As the living Father hath sent me and I live by the Father, so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me. Has sent me, Father has sent me, so I came down. Okay? I came down. 

In the same way as manna came down from the heavens. This is that bread which came down from heaven, not as your fathers did eat manna and are dead. He that eateth of this bread shall live forever. 

So, it's actually the bread which came from above that the people partake of and they become united with Jesus Christ. And this is related to ascension, brothers and sisters. Okay? This Holy Communion is directly related to ascension and the commission of the Holy Spirit is related to ascension. 

Okay, before we explain everything, let us see one more place. One more place is the most detailed description of the ascension. This is Acts chapter 1 verse 6 through 11. 

And here is the final meeting between disciples and apostles during which the Lord ascended. Okay, so what does he say, what does he tell them at this meeting? Let's see. When they were, therefore, come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, will thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel? And he said unto them, it is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has put in his own power, but you shall receive power after that the Holy Spirit is come upon you.

And you shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken, he rose, he was risen, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly towards heaven, as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, You men of Galilee, why stand you gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which arose from you into heaven, shall also come in like manner, as you have seen him go into heaven. 

So, very rich, very rich dialogue. Okay, we see that this is related to them becoming his witnesses, which is our goal as Christians. Again, and he's promising them the Holy Spirit when he comes up. 

He will send down the Holy Spirit. Again, and okay, the last thing is Apostle Peter, when he's quarreling with them, he's referring to his ascension. Let's see Acts 2, verse 33. 

He's telling those Jews, Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, raised, it's the same verb in the Greek, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he hath sent forth this, which you now see and hear. So, they see and hear these fruits of the Holy Spirit, this mission, this daringness that they have, these different languages that they speak, all of a sudden, this all is the fruits of the Holy Spirit. And this is the testimony that the Lord was telling them about. 

And this all relates to ascension. And we see the God, the Father, his right hand ascended him, raised him to the heavens. And there he received the promise of the Holy Spirit. 

So, he had to ascend into the heavens to receive this promise of the Holy Spirit, and that he can send the Holy Spirit upon the disciples, and they then would be able to receive him in the Holy Communion. And this became the glory that he was talking about throughout the Gospel, that the Son of Man will be glorified. And that is the greatest glory, okay? If you are, let's say you, okay? If you go and sit in the right hand of the Emperor, is this glory? Yes, it's earthly glory, but it's still, it's glory. 

But the true glory is if you sit at the right hand of God the Father. Just think about how great is that glory. So, he is glorified through this ascension and sitting at the right hand of the Father on this heavenly throne. 

And from this heavenly throne, we receive the Holy Communion. From this heavenly throne, we receive the Holy Spirit. We receive this union with the risen Christ from the throne of glory.

So, let's come back to the problem of Mary the Magdalene, why she was not allowed to touch him. Even though she was a great disciple, and she was the most loyal disciple, okay? She was all through by the cross. She was later after the seal of the tomb, she was watching how they sealed, she was there, she loved Jesus so much that she didn't want to go. 

And she was first to be there after Sabbath to witness, to receive this message of the resurrection. She gained this much higher dignity than even apostles Peter and John, the beloved disciple. She received this grace. 

However, she still, they were not yet enlightened by the Holy Spirit. So, she still wanted to touch him because she loved him. And he told her, okay, now things have changed. 

Now, I will receive the great glory because I am going to ascend to this throne. And that's when you will receive me truly through the Holy Communion. So, don't think that now relationship is, okay, hug, okay, you're just one of us, very good, okay, the things are the same as used to be before, okay, you are our teacher, we love you, we listen to you. 

Everything is going back to normal. We thought you're dead, but you're alive again. So, great, just let things go as they used to. 

So, no, now things are going to change. And it's not that you will not receive me, you will, but you will receive me from the throne of God the Father. Now, prepare for that, okay, drop that carnal mind. 

You see me, you can touch me, everything is fine. No, you need to see behind, you need to see the Son of God in the glory of God the Father, sitting at the throne of His glory in the heavens. And you will be united with me there. 

You have to open your spiritual eyes and see me there, okay, overcome your limitation. You need to confess the true faith. So, this is a pastoral care, this is preparation of her to have true faith, to have full faith, and not to stand on that level of just discipleship. 

So, brothers and sisters, let us think deeply about these things. This is telling us what is happening when we receive the Holy Communion. This is explaining to us how important is this commission that we go to the ends of the world to preach Him. 

And this is possible when we do become His witnesses. And this is possible because we receive His Body and Blood, and we are one with Him, sitting at the right hand of the Father. May this be reality for everyone, every day. 

Not just some nice teaching, okay, nice explanation, some poem, okay, some dogma. No, no, it has to become reality, daily reality. Brothers and sisters, this is the goal of our faith, our dedication to Christ. 

The last thing that I need to say is that, okay, this is the Lord rising, going up to the heavens, is actually completion of the sacrifice. Okay, what was done by Him in Golgotha on the cross, He died, the sacrifice is not over yet, He has to go up to God the Father. And the whole burnt offering in the Old Testament, this sacrifice called Allah, this whole burnt offering is the, Allah means arising, so it's all about raising, okay, burning all of it means the whole thing goes up, the whole thing is burnt and the smoke, the whole thing will go up to the heavens to God the Father. 

So this raising, and this is why in the Divine Liturgy the sacrifice is called anaphora, it's also, you know, or ablation, ablation from Latin means the same, means raised sacrifice, raised offering. So this means that us, we need to raise our hearts and to give over our whole self to the Lord, and only when we do that we become partakers of His raised offering, His Allah, His Allah is accomplished on the ascension. So I really hope that this truly motivates us for uncompromised, okay, unconditional surrender of us to the Lord, breaking completely away from all this worldly, all this mammon, all this earthly deception, and having the full soul, all life, all offered to the Lord every day. 

May this be so, brothers and sisters, and may the Lord give us joy, and give us spiritual, spiritual ascent, and the fruits of the Holy Spirit, which He gives abundantly to everyone who loves Him, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters. Merry Ascension.