Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church celebrates the Holy Pentecost. We had 40 days of the Paschal meeting with the Lord, this preparation for what is to come, preparation for this inheritance of the true kingdom, of true homeland. Then we had the ascension of the Lord, when He ascended into the glory, which was the triumph of His sacrifice. 

And then 10 days of prayer, 10 days of expecting this era of Messiah, this eschatological new reality to come into place, this promised land, this promised land that the Lord has promised throughout the centuries, from the time of Adam all the way until the prophets and patriarchs and all the righteous and the apostles. And now on the Holy Pentecost, we begin, we inherit this kingdom and through the descent of the Holy Spirit, we embrace and we become citizens and participants of this kingdom. And today we can say a lot about the Holy Pentecost. 

We can talk about the gifts of the Holy Spirit now and then, at the time of the apostles. We can talk about what happened on that day of Pentecost, when the Holy Church was born and when the apostles went and preached, and thousands of those Jews who were screaming, crucify Him, crucify Him, are now converting, repenting, and thousands of them are embracing the faith and the kingdom of the Messiah. But today I want to approach this topic from the passage of the Gospel of John, where the Lord is telling to His disciples right before Golgotha at the mysterious supper, on this last supper, when He gives them His final words, what does He tell them? Okay, this is John chapter 16, verse 7 and 8. Let us read through it.

The Lord said, I tell you the truth, it is better for you that I go, for if I go not, the Comforter will not come unto you, but if I depart, I will send Him unto you. Let's stop here for a second. So, we see that unless the Lord departs, He cannot send the Holy Spirit. 

There is some internal relationship between His ascension into heaven and sending down the Holy Spirit. Okay, and well, you could say even prophets had the Holy Spirit. This was very different, this was very different, because the Holy Spirit that the Lord will send will unite them to the resurrected body of Christ, and this will be a different grace, it will be a different reality than anything before, because now they will be the living vessels of the Spirit, and they will have Christ living in them, and they in Him. 

So, Hegel goes up, because it is through His resurrected body and the glorified body that we can gain the Holy Spirit. This resurrected body of Christ becomes like an organ, like the instrument is not a good word, but like the means, if you will, of receiving the Holy Spirit. Without this, we do not, we cannot receive the Holy Spirit.

So, let us see, let us look further down. Well, about this, there is also another place. Okay, this is Gospel of John 7, verse 39. 

Let us look into it. In 7, 39. This spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive. 

For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified. See, it's direct relationship. Without Him being glorified, disciples cannot receive the Holy Spirit, in this sense, in this Pentecostal sense. 

Okay. So, let us go back, let us go back to chapter 16, verse 8 now. And when He is come, the Holy Spirit, when He comes, He will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment. 

Of sin, because they believe not on me. Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and you see me no more. Of judgment, because the Prince of this world is judged.

Okay, this is quite difficult to understand. Okay, but we will try to understand. Okay, because this is really important. 

Okay, now the Holy Pentecost, this is when the Holy Spirit comes. And well, for us, 2,000 years later, this means that we are renewed in this covenant. And as a matter of fact, we lose the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, even if we ever had it.

Okay, through sins, through this apostatic life, okay, through all kinds of problems that we, okay, the whole apostasy that we live in. Okay, we defile ourselves, etc, etc. And now we crave to receive the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters. 

We do want to be truly His disciples, and without the Holy Spirit, we cannot. This is impossible. Okay, so let us see, what does it mean? Okay, well, the Holy Spirit, first of all, comes not just for us. 

Okay, this verse proves that, shows that it's not mainly for us. Okay, even though he just said that it is better for you, it's expedient for you. Well, yes, it is better for us, meaning that to be with Christ, just to, you know, to talk to Him is good also, but it's not as good as when the Holy Spirit comes down. 

Can you imagine that? We now live in the era with this possibility of receiving the Holy Spirit, which is much better than the apostles at the time when the Lord was walking together with them. Because some people now think, oh, I want to understand my whole faith. I have problem because I don't really understand this book, the Holy Scripture. 

So, if the Lord could come, He could explain, and everything would be fine. Okay, sorry, this is worshipping the intellect. Okay, worshipping the brain. 

Okay, but if you have someone, even the Lord Himself come and explain you some things, that will be better for you than what we have now. Well, sorry, you are in the apostles. Because now, when, as soon as we receive the Holy Spirit, we are much, much more enriched and blessed than if we would have just, if we would have the Lord with us, walking together, okay, supporting us, helping us, etc. 

Okay, so why? Why are we better off? Well, because we become one with the Lord. We are one, even physically, and we inherit the kingdom of heaven, and we gain these gifts of the Holy Spirit. But this is not the only reason why the Lord is sending down the Holy Spirit. 

We see that from here, from chapter 16, we see that He is sending the Holy Spirit for the world. To do what? To reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, of judgment. What does it mean? Well, one by one.

Of sin, because they have not received me, have not believed on me. The thing is that, once the Holy Spirit comes down, this manifestation of God's presence and God's power becomes so evident to all these people who were against Him, who've crucified Him, and who don't want Him, who don't believe in Him, becomes so evident, but still they don't want it. This is the sin. 

When you know clearly that this is truth, but you stick to your old ways of life, of thinking, of living in your sin, in your darkness, okay, because your, you know, perverted, dark, and miserable soul is attached to some lowly stuff of this world, and it doesn't want to let it go, okay? You have some ambitions, and you have some stuff that you value more than the Lord, and you don't allow Him to enter into your heart. You may even say, yes, I'm Christian, but you don't want to change, and you don't receive the Holy Spirit. And this is sin. 

This is sin. When you know that God loves you, and that He has accomplished so much for you, and that He is manifesting His might, His care, His truth through these disciples of Him, but still you don't want it. Still you say no, no, no, okay? This is sin. 

And this is the sin of sins, okay? This is the sin against the Holy Spirit. This is this blasphemy against the Holy Spirit that the Lord says that it will be not forgiven under the ages, okay? All other sins can be forgiven if people repent and they drop it, but this sin cannot be forgiven. I've made a video about it a few months ago. 

You can find it, okay? It cannot be forgiven if you stay in that state of no, I don't want. So the Holy Spirit will manifest itself through these disciples. So we also can say that if the disciples, why are we so concerned about the church losing this spiritual union, these fruits, okay? That the church becomes more worldly, okay? That less people, less and less people, they accomplish this work of the Holy Spirit, this work of manifesting the Lord's truth, the Lord's love, the Lord, our Lord Jesus Christ is the Son of God. 

Less and less people who call themselves Christians, less and less of them. And what about the rest? The rest does something else, okay? Some people care about their own stuff, the worldly stuff. Others care about church stuff, but nobody needs it. 

I mean, the Lord doesn't need it. They may be busy all day, but the Lord will say, I don't know what you were busy with because you were not busy with receiving the Holy Spirit and manifesting myself to this world. You were not busy with gaining the Holy Spirit, becoming true citizens of the Holy Spirit. 

You have some other stuff, agenda, but I don't need it and I will throw this away. I will spit it out, which was told to this church of Laodicea in the apocalypse, okay? So this is this reproach of this world about sin. How about the second? Okay, about righteousness.

About righteousness. What does it mean? About righteousness that I go to God the Father. It's not easy to understand, okay? But what it means is basically they killed him, claiming that he was a thief, that he was a bandit, revolutionary, some kind of rebel.

So basically he was a villain, okay? Very bad man, you know, a criminal, etc. He was an enemy of the people. He was a heretic, etc. 

And whatever he's done, he's done by the power of Beelzebub, okay? By power of this demon, etc. But he goes up to God the Father. Sorry, no sinner, no criminal can go to God the Father and sit at the right hand of the Father. 

No. Only the righteous, only the pure, unblemished one can go up. So this relates to the ascension, to glorification of the Lord. 

He's glorified, he is ascended and sits at the right hand of the Father. And that means that he is true, he is righteous. And what they've done is unrighteous.

They are deprived of any righteousness. And the disciples who receive the Holy Spirit have to expose that. They have to expose that to themselves, to these enemies of Christ, and to the whole world. 

And that is the goal of the Holy Spirit. And if we don't do that, sorry, we are not his disciples, even if we call ourselves that. So whenever Christians don't accomplish this goal, they are not really Christians. 

And they are singing against the Holy Spirit, because they are not doing the work that they need to do, the work of the Holy Spirit. He will not do it for themselves. It has to be through them that the Holy Spirit will do the work. 

And they don't want it. This is why this is the greatest sin, when people who consider themselves Christians, they don't do what they are supposed to do. They are singing against the Holy Spirit. 

How bad that is, that brothers and sisters. So whatever is related to righteousness is also now related to the Holy Spirit. And as the Lord himself was righteous, we have to be righteous. 

And we need to receive this, all kinds of reproach and all kinds of persecution. That's why we're blessed if we're reproached for the truth, for the righteousness sake, because we do the same work that the Lord has done. And we do this testimony of the Holy Spirit.

So let us really be joyful whenever that happens, whenever we are wronged, or scolded, or marginalized for the righteousness sake. This is at that time, at that point, we do the work of the Holy Spirit and become truly his children. Okay, what's next? The last thing that the Lord, the Holy Spirit will reprove this world is for the judgment, that the prince of this world is condemned. 

Well, the prince of this world is what? Is Mammon, is this Antichrist, and is the devil behind all these servants of sin, all these puppets, okay, all these ministers of iniquity, the whole world, all the whole secular world. This is the prince of the world, of this world. And it is condemned, it is condemned, meaning that first the Lord himself condemned him by overthrowing death. 

Okay, this prince tried to kill him, but the Lord has overthrown his might by trampling death by death. And he is giving to the disciples this ability to overthrow the devil, to overthrow this prince of the world, okay, through our life, through our love towards Christ, okay, through our righteousness. When we overcome sin, when we spit on sin, on demons, on any darkness, when we become fearless of any persecution, of any demonic delusion, we overthrow the prince of this world, and we do this work of the Holy Spirit of condemning this prince of the world by overthrowing him.

So, whenever we don't do that, okay, sorry, we again, we don't do the work of the Holy Spirit, and we fall away from Christianity. So, these three things, brothers and sisters, these three things we need to be involved in if we receive the Holy Spirit. And this is what we are asking the Lord now. 

We are praying to him that he can send down upon us the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is not some electric energy that comes down and boom, you're so empowered, like this energizer, and like a battery, and you do something, okay, with great energy, okay. No, this is a paganism, okay, we're not pagans. 

So, the Holy Spirit can have all kinds of concrete manifestations. It could be through will, through prayer, through wisdom, okay, through many things. But what is in essence of it is what I've just said, okay. 

This is how we can say if we have anything to do with the Holy Spirit, if these three things that the Lord has said are accomplished in our life, through what we do, through what we say, through how we pray, through our church life, okay. If our church life becomes just a religion, just, okay, commandments, I'm supposed to do this, okay, rituals, I'm going to do this. Sorry, the discipleship of Christ is not about that. 

It's about our heart being given to him. Like in the gospel, in the epistle of Hebrews, to Hebrews, Apostle Paul says that Jesus Christ, he went behind that veal, like the first, the chief priest. What does it mean? It means that he has to go behind the veal of our soul and live there, and that is what makes us truly his disciples. 

But if in that very sacred, very inner part of ourselves, we choose something else, we choose, let's say, our career, comfort, house, property, family, you name it, okay. If there is something there like that, okay, sorry, the Lord says, well, I don't insist. You choose that, okay, stay with that, and he goes, and we live in apostasy, and we can call ourselves Christians a hundred times. 

It will mean nothing. Let us all be vigilant, brothers and sisters. Let us pray that the Holy Spirit comes down upon us, and we renew our covenant with our Lord, with our beloved Christ, and we bring the fruits of the Holy Spirit in our life, become truly his witnesses to the end of the world, and have living faith, okay. 

Live in this dialogue with Christ every day. Live for him as though when you love someone, you live for that person. We need to live for Christ. 

We need to become crazy for Christ, okay. Do things that we would never do otherwise because of this love. May the Lord make us true participants, true citizens, true representatives of his kingdom which already came, and let us pray for the gifts of the Holy Spirit to come down upon us and to make us fruitful and God-pleasing members of this body of Christ which is his Holy Church, I mean. 

Merry Pentecost, brothers and sisters.