Dear brothers and sisters, last Sunday the Holy Church celebrated the Pentecost, and on Monday was the Day of the Holy Spirit. And this whole week is the week of celebrating this birth of the Church, and this commission of the Church to preach the Gospel, to preach, to bring the Kingdom of God to everyone. And this coming week we will begin another preparation for this apostolic mission. 

This preparation is the apostolic Lent, the apostolic Lent that will begin from next Monday until the Feast of the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, which is July 12. So, this year it's about four weeks, a little less. And during this time, of course, we will pray, we will fast, we will try to be more spiritual. 

But there is one fundamental problem, which if not solved, the fasting will not help. Many people, they live in the Church for many years and they do fasting every time and know a lot, but they still don't do what the Holy Apostles have done. And there is a reason why we avoid and we are unable even to carry out this mission of the Apostles. 

And the mission of the Apostles is not just to go and preach. The mission of the Apostles was to share God who is inside them, to share Him with others. If you don't have Him, you cannot share Him. 

You cannot just go out there to a radio station and say, okay guys, you have to believe something. This is what the sects are doing and the Catholics and Protestants are doing. For us, we can do the apostolic task once we gain this union with the Lord.

And why we don't have that union? Why we don't have Christ living in us? That's the main problem, because most people, most Orthodox, today I'm not talking about other Pharisees, why most Orthodox would say that they don't do any witnessing. They would say maybe I have lack of education, theological training, or maybe I'm very busy, I need to feed my family, I have this and that, etc. But when they're honest to themselves and to others, they would admit that this is because there is a lack in sight. 

It's a spiritual reason. It's not mental, educational, or this existential in terms of you have to care for other things, you're busy with something else. No, it's all spiritual, brothers and sisters. 

It's all within us, and most people will say, well, I need consolation myself. How can I bring consolation to someone else? I myself feel so bad, okay, depressed, and this and that, and I'm unable to pray well. How can I ask others to pray if I myself don't pray? Okay, etc. 

And then we'll be very honest, okay, and if we ask, so why does that happen? After many years of fasting and being in the church, why do we still have that problem? The problem is that Christ is external. Just think deeply about it. Christ is externalized. 

He is somewhere out there, and I'll explain more how that happens in the Orthodox Church. In the heresies, it's very straightforward, okay. In the heresies, all those heresies, they also come from this loss of Christ. 

All schisms, all heresies. When the Lord is lost, you don't have him living inside you. You need to follow someone.

So then comes out Pope and says, follow me, guys. Okay, very clear, very easy to understand. Let's follow him. 

He is the boss, okay. So there you have Catholicism. It's that simple. 

And later, some people say, well, that guy leads us somewhere in the wrong direction, okay. There's something wrong about it. No, we don't want to follow him. 

So some people say, well, no, not this guy, okay. So whom? Well, you don't have Christ in you. So the only choice is follow yourself. 

Just follow yourself. And there you have Protestantism, okay. Create your own church. 

You like this, you like that. Just find a church of your choice. So that is apostasy. 

And what apostasy essentially is, is this loss of Christ inside you. You're alienating yourself from him. And of course, there are also fake unions, like charismatics. 

All of them will say they have Christ. And I talk to God the Father every day, morning and evening and noontime. But this is all delusion. 

It's delusion or it's just mental sickness, okay. It's either one. And I will say a few words. 

How do we avoid delusion today? So we have these situations, okay. We have these different situations. And that's why Protestants, for example, they don't have Christ. 

Christ is somewhere else. And they are separating themselves from him further and further away. So there is eventually this heretic gap between God and man. 

So that God is somewhere out there, far away. And he just sends a holy book. And this is the only thing we have from him. 

This comes from him. Everything else is earthly, mortal, sinful, flesh, okay. But only this book. 

This is where it is. All the answers. And only there God has said something, which is recorded. 

And then he just shut his mouth up. Okay. So no saints, nothing holy, no sanctification, okay. 

No holy church, okay. There is nothing holy in the Protestantism because they don't see. They don't see it. 

It's lost, okay. And similar things are in the Catholicism, okay. Which also becomes like just mental ideas about God, okay. 

Scholastic idea, God's properties, accidents, and all this other stuff. It's just a theory of God. It's just idea of God. 

But there is no real union with Christ. Okay. You don't have Christ in yourself. 

That's why you create all those kinds of ideas. Okay. But today I don't want to talk too much about these heresies. 

I want to address the problems we have ourselves. Okay. And as I said before, all the heresies and schisms, they are stemming from within the church, okay. 

All those people that once used to be within the church. So until now we have all of that within the church also. Just maybe not as bad yet, but quite bad already. 

Could be even worse than heresies sometimes. So the two main tendencies that we have, because of this separation, this externalization, okay. I don't want to use these loaded words. 

It's just losing Christ. Okay. It's just simple as that.

You're losing Christ. Could be either liberal, ecumenist, or conservative radical, pharisee, legalist, if you want. So with this ecumenist and liberal, there is this idea, okay, that well, okay, first of all, you don't have Christ in you. 

What the Lord, what do I mean by Christ in you? Okay. The Lord said, we read it in the chapter, in the gospel of John, that I will live in them and they will live in me. And we will come to that soul and create the dwelling, me and my father, create a dwelling and dwell in his soul, in his heart. 

And the kingdom of heaven is within you. It's not somewhere else. Okay. 

Many, many things, many things. Not just the gospel of John, everywhere in the New Testament, you read it. And, but people ignore it. 

Okay. They think that it's just an idea. Okay. 

Well, what do you need for that? You need to receive Holy Communion. Okay. You receive Holy Communion, but well, you believe that that's, that's, that's it. 

But practically speaking, God is somewhere out there. He's either, okay, let's talk first about the liberals and communists. Okay. 

Christ is out somewhere out there. Okay. He's not in you.

You feel that, you know that, you're almost yourself. He's out there somewhere. And then you notice that it's the same thing for Catholics, Protestants, and for others, they just call it differently. 

Okay. Or Buddhists and Hindus, they just call it differently, but also they are searching for some kind of goal, some kind of logos, which is somewhere out there in their teachings, their beliefs. But more evidently with these sects, Protestants and Catholics, other monotheists. 

Well, if for them, he's also external, then let's try, just try a way, find a way to say, okay, let's religious dialogue. Okay. You say this, I say this, maybe we convince each other. 

Maybe we can find some compromise. Okay. And we'll figure it out.

What will make you happy and me happy. Okay. Some ideas that will be okay. 

Neat. And there is no controversy there. And we agree on some formula. 

We sign it. Okay. Everything is fine then. 

So there is no notion of truth that there is no notion of church, body of Christ. There is no, you lose that. Okay. 

You're by having that mindset, you put yourself not just outside of Christ, but outside of the church, because the church is the body of Christ. And that's why you're easily changing this and that. And for you, usually these liberals, they don't really care about holy fathers. 

Okay. They, they say, well, it's all relative, holy canons. It's all relative. 

Okay. We are, we are spiritual. So we don't have to worry too much about those things. 

So at the end of the day, you become a liberal, liberalist. Okay. And a communist and modernists in the church. 

I had a video on modernism a few weeks ago. Then there is another, another phenomenon of which has the same root, but is the opposite. Okay. 

The root is that Christ is not in you. And then you say, well, where is he? He is in the books, these books, these big liturgy books or canons of the church, or maybe dogmats of the church. Oh, he is in there. 

He is in these books, holy fathers. Okay. He's in the holy fathers.

Okay. And you become this like old right style. Okay. 

Okay. This is where he is. This is absolute.

This is holy. Same as Protestants actually. He's there, there he is. 

So we have to be very radical to preserve him there. Okay. Nothing else. 

You cannot add anything. You cannot subtract anything. It's, it's, it's there. 

Okay. This is it. And you become this Pharisee spirit, fundamentalist. 

Everybody is a heretic. Okay. Problems are in some other people, danger to the church. 

They want to harm the church. Okay. It's all from antichrist, antichrist everywhere. 

Okay. And we are holy and we are, okay. We are getting ready to, to, to preserve. 

Okay. Are we dying? Okay. So what is this? This is a Pharisee spirit.

You think you're a martyr, but you're a Pharisee. Okay. And Christian Pharisee. 

Okay. So the problem is that you don't have Christ in yourself. Otherwise you would understand what is main thing. 

Okay. You understand that all these holy candles, they are just helping you find Christ, find the, the, how to live according to God's will. Okay. 

There are just guidelines like the commandments in the scripture in the old Testament times and that the holy icons, they are just helping you get in contact with, pray to the Lord who is represented on these icons and who is in you by, she's supposed to be. Okay. And, but you make it like a fetish. 

You make it like an idol. Okay. You make it, oh, this is holy icon.

So it's by itself. It's, it's, it's something that contains God. And, okay. 

This also slips into old Testament. Okay. Old Testament was very much this materialistic, but for the new Testament church spiritual, it's, it's totally spiritual. 

Okay. But only because of our weakness, we have holy icons. We have holy scripture. 

As a matter of fact, St. John Christophe says we could have no holy scripture if it would be written in our hearts. There would be no need for the holy Bible. Okay. 

So this, all of these things are given to us because of our weakness to help us not fall away. But the problem is we make it idol and it creates even greater weakness. Okay. 

Creates a paganism within the church. So brothers and sisters, let us think deeply about these things. We, we need to find Christ. 

We need to find this union with Christ. And we also need to avoid this delusion, this prelist, which, which emerges when we have a fake idea of Christ in you. I know quite a few people who say, I talk to God the Father every day. 

And he's telling me this, he's telling me that. And many people say, yes, Christ in me, I'm in him all the time. But then you see how they live. 

Okay. And there is no truth. There is no holiness. 

There is nothing Christian in there. And you see that they are just misled. And this just create vain glory, which gives them this, this feeling of some fake, fake satisfaction, this fake spiritual feeling of being in God, which has nothing to do with God, which is just another spirit of delusion. 

Let us pray that the Lord may send down his Holy Spirit to us during this time of the Holy Pentecost, that all of us can avoid all kinds of delusion, that we can gain this union with him, that he would be living in every one of us, and we truly become his witnesses and may follow the footsteps of the apostles in this great ministry of bringing his kingdom to every soul on this planet and helping everyone overcome this slavery of sin, this slavery of darkness, of selfishness, of self-destruction, that the people are enslaved by this bondage, which is still out there for majority of them. And not to slip away into this wide road of heresy, which has all kinds of substitutes for true spirituality, for humbleness, for true prayer. Let us ask the Lord to send down the Holy Spirit that we may love prayer, that we may love the word of God in the Holy Gospel, in the Holy Scripture, in the Bible, that we may be steadfast in the ministry, in bearing our cross, no matter how heavy it is, and to prove truly children of our Father who art in heaven, who is in heaven. 

God bless, dear brothers and sisters. Amen. May the Lord bless and help you in this upcoming apostolic Lent. 

Amen.