Dear brothers and sisters, this last Monday we have already entered the Apostles' Feast. This is a preparation for the Feast of the Apostles, of the two great Apostles, Saint Peter and Paul, which will be on July the 12th. And also, after the Pentecost, together with the Apostles, we renew our covenant with the Lord, and we come out for this testimony of the Lord's love, self-sacrifice, of His kingdom, of His resurrection. 

So today, I want to share with you some thoughts about what does it mean in our days. And in light of these final days of this world that we are approaching, and the Second Coming of Christ, in light of Revelation, what can we say about this goal, this task, in our days of this apostleship? What does it mean? Well, first, let's recall what happened with the Holy Apostles, especially Saint Peter and Saint Paul. They preached the kingdom of God. 

They did not preach any material things. It was all spiritual. In those days, they didn't have, let's say, some nice cathedrals, I don't know, some other attributes. 

It was this spirit, it was this message. They've shared God himself with others. Unlike the Jews, in those days, they had the temple, they had the priests, they had the books, they had many, many things. 

Apostles didn't have all that. So now, sometimes people think, well, the more, say, I have more icons, or more, I don't know, more stuff I have, more activities I do, the better. Well, apostles, they did not organize barbecues, parties, or something like that. 

They were preaching the resurrected Christ. And that word was that powerful that it just turned the world upside down. And because of such powerful testimony, this old world, this apostatic, this dark world that has not been renewed by Christ yet, in majority, did not want to bear with this.

This prince of this world and the devil who is behind it, they were struggling to kill them, and they succeeded in that. They thought, foolishly, that by killing Christ and the apostles that they will get rid of the problem. But no, the holy apostles, even though they were killed, they were martyred, well, first, this caused millions of other people, all the way until now, to feel this great motivation, to appreciate this treasure, this treasure of the kingdom of heaven, and to do this testimony until this present day, to carry on with this testimony.

So it produced, as Tertullian said, that the blood of the church is seeds of the, blood of martyrs is the seeds of the church. True, okay, as the blood of Christ, as also the apostles and martyrs were called, that they were baptized in their own blood. It was like second baptism for them, second birth, and that their own blood became blood of Christ. 

So they were baptized, immersed in blood of Christ. Okay, this is very powerful symbology, okay, but this is not the main point that I want to talk about today. Later, you may say, oh, you want us to become Protestants, not to have icons and churches? No, by no means. 

Protestants, they are in apostasy, they've cut the relationship with Christ, okay, and Catholics, as a matter of fact, also. So today, it's not about Protestantism, it's about what is the main thing in the church, which is this union with Christ, and what is secondary or tertiary or, okay, somewhere, somewhere else, okay. The main goal for each and every one of us is to be one with Christ, okay, to need him and to sacrifice ourselves for him. 

Unless we do that, we will not be with Christ, brothers and sisters. If you want to overthrow the devil, only Christ can do it, you cannot, okay. So if you want to overthrow the devil, you must be with Christ, okay. 

And if you don't want to be with Christ, okay, sorry, but the devil will overtake you, okay. You'll become his servant and his victim. And this is what I want to talk about now, when we are reaching the point when this world is falling down in this abyss, okay. 

But before I talk about that, let us do a recap, okay, that the kingdom of God is entering, okay, after the Pentecost, the kingdom of God is entering this earthly, this worldly realm, this material world, and we have two worlds overlapping. Okay, before that, it wasn't like that. Before Christ, it wasn't like that. 

So now we have the kingdom of God is overlapping with this, with this world, with this fallen and apostatic world, which doesn't love Christ, okay, which doesn't know Christ, okay, it has no spirit, no holy spirit, it has all kinds of other spirits, okay. And it becomes such a reality, brothers and sisters, we need to be conscious of this, we need to be conscious, we should not just attach ourselves to just members of this world, this only one world. No, there are two worlds, it just seems to be one, but there are two, there are more actually, but now we are talking about these two, okay. 

And this world, which is not renewed, which is, which chose not to take Christ, okay, is heading towards its end, okay. But we know that the kingdom of God is close, okay, it became close with the coming of Christ, also to this fallen world, and this is why its fall becomes even more rapid, okay. And there is this polarization which is going on, that people who choose Christ are more and more conscious of that, okay, they cut everything that has to do with mammon, they become radicalized in a good sense, okay, that now only Christ, okay, nothing else, and the rest of the world is also getting polarized, even because it's choosing the devil, okay, more and more. 

There is still some gray area, okay, there is still some gray area, there is still some uncertainty about some people, what they will choose at the end of the day, and, but it's becoming less and less. We can say that we're still in that one thousand years, in that one thousand years of apocalypse, which is symbolic, of course, when the devil is chained, okay, he cannot do whatever he wants, okay, you may say, well, we see this world is in apostasy, this world is going crazy, so much sin in the world, it seems that the devil is freed already, no, brother, sister, he's not, okay, he's not, he can act upon people only when they choose that, only when they make this choice, otherwise he cannot do anything, okay, but this time comes, and we read about it in the Revelation chapter 9, that from the abyss, like from a well, there will be this smoke, and some creatures come out, and they begin torturing everyone, except those who have the stamp of God on them, the seal, who are sealed by God, okay, and these things, these creatures, of course, they're quite graphical, but in reality it's all symbols, it's not about how they look in reality, okay, the spirits, they have no look, okay, they will be liberated in some way, okay, so this Apollyon, this destroyer, who is behind this big army of these demons, he will come out, and the holy fathers and all the saints, they've prayed to the Lord not to leave till those days, okay, because that's going to be ugly world, when they'll have this unlimited power to do whatever they want with people, but only with those who are not sealed by God, okay, and we are approaching that time, brothers and sisters, we don't know when it's going to come, maybe it's going to be accomplished in stages, maybe we are in one of those stages already, okay, we cannot be exact about these things, but we can say that now is still the time that we can prepare ourselves to have that seal in those days, okay, don't just hope that, okay, maybe I'm going to be lucky, I'll die before that, and I'll be in heavens, and everything's going to be fine, I'll be just looking how is this world going nuts and tortured by these things, don't count on that, okay, in some way all of us are participating in all this process, okay, already, so by then, at that time, it will be too late, okay, it's just gonna be too late, okay, so these people, they will not repent anymore, okay, we see that all these great disasters are falling upon this humankind, but they don't repent, they become even more angry at God, okay, they curse him, and we see that there is no benefit, okay, it's not these disasters happen for them to repent, because they don't repent, okay, so it's just the outcome of their sin, and there is no repentance, okay, the doors of repentance is going to be closed, and we can see it already in many people, it's not just something that's going to happen later, we see some people, they are becoming like stoned, okay, we saw it with communists, we see it now with many people, okay, so they're like a zombie type, okay, that no repentance already, okay, no matter what you do, if somebody is gonna resurrect and come to them and tell them no, and it was always like this, okay, we see that the Lord is talking about such people in his parable of the rich man, and so this problem of this complete stone-heartedness, okay, in the lack of any possibility, even no remorse, leave alone repentance, even no remorse, okay, they're just on this track, they're just pulled towards continue this sinful life, okay, just keep going, so that they cannot physically, they can, but they are already submitting their will completely, totally, okay, to that evil spirit. So, brothers and sisters, now is the time when every, each and every one of us can still contribute to this plan of salvation of God, okay, he calls, now we are in this apostolic land just for that purpose, to make ourselves, to make ourselves more capable of doing that, more motivated to doing that, for doing that, and as the angels, they've helped God to accomplish his divine plan, okay, we read about this in the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament, in the church writings, that they've appeared to Joseph in the dream, to Mary on the Annunciation, to the Apostles on the Ascension, and many other apparitions of these angels to help God accomplish his plan of salvation. 

The same, well, not exactly the same, but very similar task is given to us, brothers and sisters, our mission becomes to assist God in this plan, especially we become united with him even much more than angels, even though they are spiritual, we're both spiritual and physical, carnal, but we can be united with him, and we can do this testimony even better than angels do, okay, so let us be very conscious, very much aware and eager to accomplish this task, accomplish this mission, and to cut everything that has to do with mammon, with this world, to be much more conscious about this world falling into this abyss, okay, some people, individuals, they can be falling like immediately, and there was like that all the time, okay, to become like just complete slaves of Satan, but now we have the general public, okay, the general society is falling through, and this fall goes into different ways and forms, liberal, conservative, left, right, capitalist, communist, okay, there is some logic to the way how these demons pull this world down into this abyss, okay, so don't be on these sides of this, okay, don't attach yourself emotionally too much to this world, because it's falling through the ground, okay, it's going to this abyss, to this Avadon, Apollyon, to this destruction, and we are coming to the Lord, okay, so this is what's happening, two worlds, we are approaching the Lord, we are becoming more and more his servants, and the other world is falling through, but we try to help anyone, everyone in this world, okay, we still try as much as we can, because we have still a great hope, we don't just, oh, they are losers, they are, okay, they are being destroyed, okay, just leave it at that, no, no, we love everyone, as the Lord himself, he loved the sinners, not the righteous, so we do love all the sinners, and we try to help them avoid this destiny, this is very much avoidable, there's nothing unavoidable about it, but it's just the choice that people do, and they bring them to this destruction, may the Lord give us this eagerness, this strength, this wisdom, help us renew our covenant, clear our conscience from anything that may impede us from this testimony, from the holy righteous life in Christ, and may more and more people become aware of this great joy of living with Christ, and inheriting his kingdom, amen. God bless, brothers and sisters, and Merry Apostles Fest, Amen.