Dear brothers and sisters, the apostolic Lent is over, and this Saturday we celebrate the memory of two great apostles, Saint Peter and Saint Paul. And on this day I want to share with you some thoughts about what it means to be a pastor. Because after my last video there were some subscribers who've asked if all the pastors are corrupt. 

And indeed my criticism was quite harsh of the church, of what's going on within the church, that it might seem to some that I'm doubting authority of all the clergy, all the pastors, and sort of bring up myself as the best alternative to other pastors. By no means, that's not the way, that's not the meaning. Because nowadays indeed we have quite a lot of bloggers, who I'm talking about priests, even orthodox priests. 

Because of this format of, you know, making a video blog, and it's you, and it's you sharing something, and it's your channel, okay, it's your audience. That some of them really slip into either some kind of criticism of everyone, okay, without love, okay, without... They think it's like being a prophet, okay, but it's not. It's being just a canine, you know, who is always upset about everything else and everyone else.

And no humbleness, no love, okay. And there is another thing which happens is self-glorification. That, okay, I will give you some... Nobody else knows this, but I will tell you what's the right answer, etc, etc. 

So I really hope I can escape both of these traps in my videos. And today I want to make a video on pastors of our days, that we see, that we meet in the churches, in parishes, and what is very important to avoid, okay, and how to tell if this is a true pastor or this is a wolf in the sheep's skin, okay, or this evil farmer, okay, a garden keeper, as in the parable of the Lord. Again, those leaders of the Jewish people in those days, they were already not pastors, not the gardeners who were supposed to bring the fruit in due time, okay, they would feed on the garden, but they would bring most of these fruits to the master, produce this harvest in the due time. 

However, they kept it to themselves, and they kept the garden to themselves. And they've either humiliated or killed the servants whom the master sent, and they've killed his son. And the Apostle Paul says that it must happen, then these wolves in the sheep's skin will enter into the flock and will scandalize and destroy some of the flock. 

So it's really important to tell, okay, what what is this, what are these people, okay, are we talking about anyone who is not like ideal, then he is not a good pastor? By no means not. And I can tell you that most of the pastors, most of the priests now are very good pastors, okay. And also, this is not just to protect the people, we need to know these things, but also to know how to help a pastor become a better pastor, okay, and to avoid slipping into becoming more dissatisfied, despondent, and slip into other sins, materialistic, etc. 

Okay, because it also depends on the flock, okay. And also, by the way, maybe some of you are thinking about becoming pastors, which we also have a bad lack of, okay. And the Lord said that it's me who chose you, and not you who chose me. 

So I advise all of you and your friends to consider following this in the footsteps of the apostles and consider if maybe you could also become a pastor and the priest of the church, of which there is a urgent need for. So now talking about this pastorship and being a pastor, which is a good pastor, okay. First, I'll bring up some parables, okay. 

In any relationship, okay, there can be some development that people become worse. Okay, let's say you are married, okay. When you got married, your husband was a great nice guy and loved you, cared for you, wanted to make a better family, okay, to provide, etc, etc.

But after some challenges, after this, after that, after you've been not wise in this relationship and maybe lazy or maybe something else, he's becoming worse and worse and worse. And after 10 years, 5 years, you already have a despot who is screaming, who is breaking things, who is beating you, okay, who is or maybe lazy, doesn't want to do anything, okay. You have someone like that. 

And of course, there is a possibility that he was always like this, okay, that you just didn't see it, okay, for some reason. And then it all came back. But it also may be that it's all developed, okay, it's not all of a sudden, okay. 

He was really different person when you married, when you met him. The same goes with wives, okay. Could be a nice great girl, okay, really kind and humble and etc. 

But after some years, okay, it's already a different person, okay. She's screaming, she's always unhappy, always complains about not having enough money or something else, okay. So, and that may be because you make her like that, okay. 

So, it's also maybe not just her fault, okay. So, the same goes everywhere, okay. The same can go, we can talk about the elite in government, okay. 

The elite in government used to be like elite that cared for their people, okay, and could die for their people, for the country, for the homeland. But now we have all these kleptocrats or like anti-elite and people who are corrupt, who are selfish, who are despots, or greedy, or can sell anything for money, etc., etc. You know it better, okay, what we have now, or just some just dumb bureaucrats who just do what they're told to do, even when it's evil and harmful, okay. 

So, but maybe they weren't like that all the time, okay. Well, with the government it develops, usually it's over time or comes with some revolution, but that's a different story, okay. But there we go, we can also see that, okay. 

Even in the Bible we have some examples, like King Saul, he wasn't that bad when he became a king, but then he departed and he betrayed the blessing of the Lord, okay. And a similar thing happened to King Solomon, by the way, not so bad, but also bad enough, okay, that he then, okay, left, he sort of went astray and even became like idol worshiper of a sort, okay. So the same thing can happen with the priests, with pastors, brothers and sisters. 

And actually I can tell you that nowadays people change so fast, okay. I can bring you an example, okay. I had a person and he's like 60 something, he is not in Taiwan, it's far away, so I won't say any names, and like two, three years ago he was agnostic and he wouldn't, he was quite polite about faith, about Christianity, just two, three years, and now he is like crazy hatred against anything Christian, okay, anything related to faith. 

I'm not talking about church politics, etc., but I'm talking about faith itself, so there is a great development, very fast development in him, okay. So the evil, it's working its way, especially when we don't live according to commandments, when we don't have spiritual life, okay, if spiritually we are zero, okay, or negative, well, we'll slip into this Apollyon, this Abaddon, okay, in Hebrew, in this annihilation, we'll slip into it very fast, it's going to be very fast. So similar things happen with priests, okay, with pastors, if they don't find that spiritual basis for their ministry that they do. 

And having said this, I want to tell you that, okay, the main key, the main aspect which makes a pastor a wolf is in the selfishness, okay, it's when he is no longer sacrificing himself for the church, for the flock, for the word of God, for the bringing this word to the people, but of myself, my time, my this, my that, how is this beneficial to me, how will this promote me, okay, well, anyone is selfish, okay, to some extent, okay, so we cannot expect that the priest would be just complete, you know, give away everything, but you can tell, okay, you can tell if it's just, okay, some basic thing, like a small hobby that he has or something, okay, or it is his position, okay, that no matter what, the first thing that comes to his mind is what benefit can I get from this, okay, and he doesn't care about anything else much, okay, so basically he is serving mammon already, okay, he can call himself priest, orthodox priest three times, bishop, patriarch, big schema, archimandrite, anything, but he will be a minister of this mammon and then he is already this evil gardener or a wolf in the sheep's skin, he may not even realize that himself, okay, and I can tell you that there are not that many priests who are like that, don't think that, okay, oh, I'm afraid of everything, everyone in every church, this is minority, it's not majority of priests like that, okay, the priest can have other, you know, weaknesses, okay, maybe he's not very educated, maybe he is a little bit lazy, maybe he is, I don't know, something else, okay, some things which are, okay, you wouldn't expect from a priest, but it's just some little weakness that he has, or maybe they eat too much, maybe they have big belly, this doesn't mean that he is a bad priest, no, okay, even some saints have big bellies, actually, like, okay, I have some examples, so we should not judge priests, okay, we should not judge them, okay, and we should be on the positive end, okay, some priests may be a little bit politically, you know, inclined towards this or that, it's quite possible, but this is not something to be really afraid of, okay, I would say if the priest is a communist, he is also a wolf in the sheep's skin, it's corrupted, okay, it's like heretic, okay, he is like heretic, so even he cannot really be loving the flock, because he would love his heresy, he would be spoiled by that heresy, there cannot be, like, real love in his heart, neither towards Christ nor towards you, so we should be careful about that, and we should help priest become a better priest, okay, because if we are bad parishioners, eventually our priest will get worse and worse, okay, this is quite logical, if we don't help him, if we don't care about anything in the church, if we are not responsible for anything, okay, the priest will be also, he will go crazy with such parishioners, okay, and he might slip into despondency or into something else, so let us be mindful of that, let us not judge priests, and it is important for a lay person to feel at comfort in the church where he goes, okay, I know that, okay, this is natural, so don't expect, you know, anti-Christ under any bush, behind any priest, no, okay, yes, priests may have some limitations, but this is a pastor, he loves his flock, he loves his ministry, he's here not to make money, he could make more as elsewhere, okay, he does what he's supposed to do, and okay, I confess, I receive holy communion, I participate in the divine liturgy, and this is great, glory to God, okay, and I have all the other time that I have for my own prayer, spiritual life, reading the gospel, the holy father's spirituality, okay, I can grow, okay, I don't have to depend just on what the priest is saying in the church, in my spiritual growth, okay, so we have the holy fathers, we have so many great spiritual examples, saints, martyrs, okay, we have this great wealth of the fruits of the Holy Spirit already accumulated in the church that we can all have a great use of, okay, and the big problem that is harming both the priest and the laity is these gadgets, okay, because gadgets, when people are stick to it, to some chats, I don't know, some Facebook, telegram clips, some something else, music, movies, whatever it could be, this is all bringing people to further despondency, to the faith, the love towards God is getting weaker, dimmer, and slowly, step by step, this can bring people to evil, becoming an evil pastor, changing the way a priest would treat his flock, his ministry, it could happen not overnight, but after a few years, that could very well happen. Unfortunately, quite many priests now are also addicted to this, okay, so please, you know, be careful, be careful yourselves, and don't be too demanding on the priests, okay, it is all has to begin with us, if we want to improve this world, if we want to, okay, establish the kingdom of God, the ministry, his ministry to be manifest in this world, to make it not so apostatic, not so alienated from faith, from anything Christian, then we need to begin with ourselves, brothers and sisters, okay, and don't worry too much about what the priest is, how good a pastor he is, etc., okay. May the Lord keep all of you from harm, from evil, from mistakes, okay, from some confusion that we may see, may encounter in some churches, parishes, and may the Lord strengthen all of us in faith, in piety, in this ministry, and may he give us the joy of his salvation. 

Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.