Dear brothers and sisters, this week we've commemorated the holy royal passion bearers, Emperor Nicholas, Empress Alexandra, their children, and some people will say that their death was just political. However, it was an example of their dedication to Christ, because they did not run away, they did not slander against others, they did not submit themselves spiritually to those evil forces which conquered political control in Russia, and their last one and a half years of their life was truly martyrdom, was truly their Golgotha, and we can read it from their diaries, how they had great patience, and how they suffered, and how they blessed their persecutors, how they loved, this is true Christian love. So, when somebody is showing through his life, and through his passions, and through his death, what it means to love Christ, he's a saint. 

So, they are canonized as passion bearers, not as martyrs, because they were not martyred outspokenly for Christ, to reject Christ. Okay, but they are passion bearers in the sense that they've taken up these passions in a Christian way, and they took the cross and followed Christ to their Golgotha, okay, without running away. So, today's video I want to dedicate to their memory, and I want to say about the spiritual gifts, which we are wondering how come the early church, early Christian was so rich in those spiritual gifts. 

People, these apostles, they were praying, healing others, they were chasing out demons, they were resurrecting people, they showed this example of fearless testimony of Christ Lord, His name in front of those authorities, in the synagogues, in the Roman forums, everywhere, okay, and all of them, except John the Theologian, everybody was martyred. Okay, why anti-holy martyrs, they show us so great examples of Christian love, dedication to Christ, care for each other, okay. We don't see such love so often these days, neither among the parishioners, nor even in the monasteries, okay, not among the clergy.

What happened? Is there something wrong? Did God's grace change? It's, like, limited towards the end of the world? Well, no. The Lord is today, and yesterday, today, and forever is the same. So, what is this reason for that? And the reason is in us, brothers and sisters, the reason is in us, and we know exactly what is the reason, okay. 

Saint Gregory the Theologian, he tells us that if you don't extend your hand to the cross, you cannot extend your hand towards the supper of the Lord. What does that mean? That means that if we are not, if we're not bearing up our cross, if we don't welcome the cross, if we don't follow Christ in the way we live, and in the way we treat sufferings, and hardships, and issues, and temptations, if we don't, and even the devil who is trying to tempt us, if we don't treat them in the same way as Christ, then we will not be having a part in this kingdom that he has established. We are deprived of this grace of this kingdom. 

And some people also wonder why for the, after my conversion to Christianity, to Orthodox Church, I had this great inspiration, grace, I could pray for hours at home in the church, reading so many books about the lives of saints, okay, I was really like flying on the, with wings, you know, in the clouds. But after two, three, five years, everything is gone, it's gone, I don't know. It seems to be just that, okay, yes, church, liturgy, Bible, so what? I don't feel any rejuvenation, resurrection, okay, it's all just some nice words about the theosis and some revelations, etc. 

But I don't have it, I don't feel it, okay, I'm not part of it, I don't love people, I don't like my life, okay, etc. What has happened? Some people, well, very often we explain that saying that, okay, it's just you were given some, how to say, credit which you were, you have not earned yet, the Lord just wanted you to taste how it feels to be in grace, but now you have to earn it yourself. Well, this is just a part of the explanation, and it's actually not the main reason. 

The main reason is in these words of St. George, sorry, Gregory the theologian, and he also adds to that that if you are not hungry when you come to this supper of the Lord, you will not eat from that supper, and you will depart hungry, but if you are hungry for the Lord, for his righteousness, for his salvation, if you are hungry, if you're craving for the spiritual food that you receive from this table, you will depart full, you will, actually, you will not depart, okay, you will just stay there, but you will be filled. Blessed are those who are hungry and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled, and blessed are thou who mourn, you who mourn, for you will be consoled, you will receive comfort, you will be comforted, okay, because mourning is also having this grief about what? About your own sin, repentance, about this world which is going crazy in apostasy, okay, if you mourn about that, you will be comforted. If you feel that, okay, everything is fine, your life is fine, you already have comfortable life, everything goes, you know, according to the schedule, you have stable job, you have stable family, you are healthy, well, might as well go to church and receive Holy Communion, because everybody is doing that, and that gives me some comfort in my heart, I just go and do it. 

Sorry, you will not receive Christ, you will not receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit, and you will depart hungry, spiritually hungry, okay. This is the main reason why we don't receive the holy gifts these times, brothers and sisters, why we slip away again and again into sins, into those bad habits, like for a priest, it also can become just a job, okay, I'm supposed to do a liturgy on Sundays, okay, just do my job, okay, one, two, three, done, okay, go home. If you are like this, you will slip into apostasy in one way or another, and we have a lot of that, unfortunately. 

So, this is also one of the reasons why we are fasting before receiving Holy Communion, okay. Your fasting is just your carnal reminder that you need to be fasting in your spirit, you need to be hungry for the Lord in your spirit, you need to be craving for Him, for the Holy Eucharist, and also we do Holy Confession before that, because you need to be in pain for your own sins, you need to feel that you do need that salvation that you gained from Christ. Unless you are hungry and thirsty for that, you will not get it, you will not get the salvation, okay. 

So, this is the key issue, and the problem with all the heresies is that they don't have cross, they have some fantasies about salvation, but they don't really need the true salvation of the Lord, for the salvation happens here, that's why they are so much obsessed about psychological well-being, about material well-being, success, etc. The Lord doesn't give that. Well, some of you may say, well, I'm not comfortable, I don't have much money, okay, I'm looking for the job, okay, I'm always frustrated with this hardship of life, so do I fit for that? Am I suitable for that, for receiving this from Christ? No, you're not. 

Why? Because you chose to be fed by mammon. For you, what to eat, what to drink, what to dress in, where to live, how to spend your time, entertainment, all these things become much more important, and you become a pagan. And you can call yourself Christian, Orthodox Christian, Triple Orthodox Christian, Authentic Orthodox Christian, doesn't matter, you're a pagan, because all these things become idols.

Your heart does not belong to Christ, and that's why all of that is blocking your access. Even if you're most miserable, poor, no money, no nothing, you are all in your passions. These passions, they are filling your heart, they are squeezing it, they're making you a slave, you're frustrated, you are in hell already. 

I mean, what kind of salvation are you talking about? If you choose hell, if you cannot forgive people who wronged you, if you don't love your enemies, what are you talking about? Other people, they fill themselves with politics, with other agenda, some people are filled with movie theaters, they go to movie theaters, or regular theaters, or they have some collection, or they're obsessed about their career, or most of us, we're obsessed about these gadgets. Okay, you're already full, because you were watching, you're following so many things. We are now, brothers and sisters, we live in this consumerist society. 

It's all about consumption. It's all about consumption, both for goods and services, but also for information, for emotions. Okay, you will listen to those bloggers, to those songs. 

Why? Because you want to consume. Some people, they listen to the bloggers who are telling them that the world is getting over, apocalypse is coming. Sorry, you're just consuming this entertainment for horror.

You love horror movies. Well, maybe you don't want to watch horror movies anymore, but you want this real-life horror. You think that they make you smart. 

You think that they make you reveal what's happening. Actually, you cannot influence anything, and you don't care, and they don't care. They just want to provide you some content that you will say, oh, I want to consume this, I will push like, I will post this. 

Some people are like that. Okay, this is why these things, these channels are so popular. It's all about consumption. 

You consume all kinds of stuff, and you're full. You're full, and then you go to church, you pray, you receive communion, but you don't receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit, because you're already full. Okay, or you're obsessed by something else, by your studies, by your career, by your interaction with some people that you think is so meaningful, so important.

You're full. You're already full. No need for Christ to come and save you.

The Lord said you already have your pay in this world. This is also why if you've done something meaningful, something good, don't seek for human approval, because if they approve you, they say, yes, you're good. Sorry, you're losing your remuneration from God. 

Okay, of course, it's not about remuneration. It's just our limited mind doesn't have better words for that. You're not receiving the gifts of the Holy Spirit. 

You are not in grace. You are not, so you are not driven by the Holy Spirit. And this is the goal. 

If we live by faith, if Christ is everything for us, it will be quite dynamic. Our faith will be very dynamic. It will not be about just memorizing some dogmas. 

It will be every day is testimony. Every day is mortifying our old self, discovering something about the kingdom of God, having this penetration, connecting, connection to this kingdom, being part of the eternal reality, which is transcending space and time. This is what God wants us. 

He wants us to be God's truly in this union with him, spiritually free of any passion, of any limitation, of any fallacy, blindness. Let us pray about this, brothers and sisters. Let us ask the Lord to help us overcome this spirit of this world. 

We need to wake up and to see how ugly this Babylon is that we live in and how ugly ourselves, our old, mortal, selfish, carnal, passionate self is. How miserable is my soul? In these prayers, morning, evening, we also always say, my miserable soul, my wretched soul. What does that mean? Let us really, truly feel that.

Without him, we are wretched. We are blinded. We are done, okay, finished with.

May the Lord be with us. May he give us his strength and wisdom. May he inspire us by his Holy Spirit. 

Give us his grace. Give us the holy gifts of the Holy Spirit and make us victorious over any darkness, over any worldliness, okay, any ugliness of this fallen world. God bless, brothers and sisters.