Dear brothers and sisters, our Lord, he told his disciples what to expect at the end of the days. He told them about these final tribulations which will come upon this earth. He told them about wars, about earthquakes, and most importantly about the fake prophets and fake Christs.

And today I want to say a few words about how to be deluded, how to be deceived into fake Christianity. And I'm not talking about heresies so much. I will talk more about what happens, what are these dangers of having a fake faith to the people who are within the church, within the true church, the Orthodox Church of Christ. 

First of all, let us think about other dangers. Are they really so serious? Let's say some crisis, economic, political, war, earthquake, disease, famine. Well, for a Christian, if you truly love Christ, all of this will not separate you from him. 

So, the most you will have some difficulties, you will have deep pain for the people who are suffering. However, you yourself will not lose Christ, you will not lose your faith, your dedication to him, if you truly love him and you're truly Christian. So, we would not be so much concerned about world crisis and stuff like that.

Another thing is these temptations coming from Babylon, from all these carnal pleasures, from the riches, from the mammon, if you will, in all different shapes and forms. All of that is not also something to be of great fear. We were not afraid of these things. 

As soon as you are with Christ, as soon as you are focused on him, these things, they will slip away. You can be in the middle of Babylon, you can be in the middle of anywhere, like Lot was in the middle of Sodom, and all those things, all those sins, passions, desires, they didn't harm him in any way. And even if a Christian slips into some sin like that, he will understand that he's falling away, that he is sinning, and he will repent and come back, hopefully. 

He can do that, at least he can always, he always has this choice. It's quite evident to him. But it's much less evident when he is deceived into fake religion, into fake perception of Christ, thinking, honestly, sincerely thinking that he is following Christ, however he is following the devil, okay, worshiping the devil. 

This is the most intricate and most dangerous deception, and that's why the Lord told us about these fake Christs and fake prophets. But before I go into this, let me say a few words about what was done by Christ. Christ, he destroyed these shackles of Hades, which had people in these bones, you know, it's like when people sin and they cannot really get out, even when they repent, they cannot really get out of this, they are in darkness, in this enslavement.

And the Lord crushed all this, he destroyed all those shackles. So, from that time on, from the beginning of this era of Messiah, okay, this era of new creation, when the heavens are open to those who repent and who embrace the Lord, this is a possibility anytime, anywhere, okay. And we just need to open our hearts and drop away, drop off all the sin and delusion and whatnot, okay. 

So, in this situation, it became much more difficult for the devil to control humanity, to build his empire of darkness, okay, this alternative kingdom that he wants to build to pretend that he is God, he is the master. And now he has to be dependent on those people who choose darkness, okay. And there are two main groups of those people from ancient time till now, these are the Gentiles and the Jews, those who rejected Christ, not Jews by blood, okay, we're not antisemites, we love Jews, our Lord is a Jew. 

We are actually Jews in the right sense, okay, spiritual. In spiritual sense, all Orthodox Christians are Jews, okay, spiritually, because they glorify God, which means by the word Jew. So, the true Israel, the new church, is the kingdom of God, which is in this world already. 

And we have these two forces, which are competing to gain more darkness, to build this together, build this kingdom of Antichrist. And these two forces from ancient days, okay, we can trace it back very, very far back, that would be the Gentiles, okay, and the Jews, okay. The Gentiles, persecutions, we remember those emperors Nero, Domitian, Diocletian, these terrible despots who've killed so many Christians, okay, so this outright persecution, or some laws, okay, this is restricted, Christianity is restricted, banned, so that's finished. 

So, these methods. Then we have slander by those folk who were not willing to repent, so they lived in these darknesses, carnal life, those pagan, you know, peasants and whatnot, okay, that mob. And they hated Christians because they did not want to repent. 

So, they slandered against them, and then others believed, and etc., okay. Then there were the intellectuals, okay, who've created all these philosophies and other stuff, and also other fine arts and sciences, and tried to worship the human intellect, and to create a world and conceptions which would chase out any need for true repentance, any need for this self-sacrifice that Christ has shown us, this love towards man. So, they rejected also Christ, mainly, majority of them. 

There were also others, okay, we have witches, magicians, we have people related to that, is the people who've done drugs, smoked, all kinds of stuff, had these illusions, made people addicted, all those things we have until now, and they come from this pagan side, mainly. Now we have also this Jewish side, and the synagogue, or Sanhedrin, if you will, that condemned Christ, and the highest authorities, they knew that he is the true Messiah, so they have the greatest guilt of day side, and the other folk which followed them and were inspired by them. And there we have, and they, of course, they cooperate with the Gentiles in many ways to impose this darkness upon, to squeeze out, to destroy the church.

So, they have this hatred, this great hatred against Christ. They blamed him for everything, for destruction of temple, for destruction of Israel, for all these wars that they had, these bloody wars with Romans, for all of that they blamed Christ, until now. And they have this great hatred, because it's not this Messiah that they wanted, that they craved for, that would make them kings and, I don't know, with this earthly glory and stuff like that. 

So, all of that nonsense and proudness, demonic stuff, they became possessed by those things. So, this fake religion, and hatred, and slander, all kinds of slander against the church, Christians. Most martyrs, a lot of martyrs were killed because of that slander, St. Polycarpus, Smyrna, many, many others. 

And then they also began using other methods, like Judaization of Christianity. Many sects, many, sorry, Pharisees, they were inspired by these Jewish thinkers. And later we have even Catholicism and Protestantism. 

These were all inspired by this Judaistic thought, both spiritually and intellectually. And we have Protestantism, of course. We have Kabbalah, which brings all kinds of other destructive you know, monsters, like Marxism, and Communism, Capitalism, Freudism, many other things. 

And Ecumenism, okay, now we're coming, we're slowly, slowly getting to the main topic that I want to talk about. They also bring this messianism that comes with nationalism, and which calls these two wars, two world wars, and that we are special, our nation is special, this ethno-philatism, all kinds of narrow nationalisms that we have in European nations and other nations. These are all inspired by same spirits, and sometimes directly inspired by those Judaizers. 

And I have some videos on that also. So we have all of that, but you might say, well, what does this have to do with me? I love Christ. Why do I need to care about all those things? And this is true. 

This is true. As long as you are in prayer, as long as you love Christ more than anything, more than anyone, you don't have to even know about these things which I'm talking about. They won't harm you. 

However, us, since we have fake, weak faith, and we slip away, and we lose this sight of Christ, we may slip into some of these things. And we do slip into some things. And as I said, these heretic Christian confessions, they all are based on this darkness of Judaism and paganism intermixed. 

And there are different Judaism, Sadducees, Pharisees, and many others. So I'm not going to talk about this right now. I identify the main elements of it.

So what does this create? This creates this misunderstanding of God. Who is God? What is repentance? What is salvation? And this becomes so difficult for Christians. Now I want to talk about the problems within the Orthodox Church, because this is what concerns us the most. 

And within the Orthodox Church, well, it used to be clear, okay, if you are a lazy Christian, priest, or lady, or bishop, people will see. Other faithful, they will see, okay, this is some lazy or this greedy priest, okay, or this is a fake bishop, he's a heretic, okay. People would see, because most of them, they would live in prayer, in love, in Christian way. 

However, the faith is getting weaker and weaker. And with this weakening of faith, it becomes more and more difficult. And the evil becomes more and more disguised, okay.

So we are not afraid so much of just a weak faith. Say, you don't want to pray, you don't want to fast, you are more interested in some secular stuff. Okay, this means that you are depart from Christ, depart from church, okay, you fall away. 

You know it, we know it, God knows that. However, much more, much bigger danger and problem lies in the situation when you think that you are pious, you think that you are with Christ, that you are humble, that you are in line with the teaching of Christ, that you are the Christian, the chosen one, can you pray, you go to church, you receive Holy Communion, you read the Holy Fathers, you know theology, you know the scripture. However, all of that is delusion, and you are worshiping mammon and Satan. 

How terrible is this situation, brothers and sisters? How terrible is this? How deep is the darkness? The Lord said, if the light which is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? This is what he was talking about. And now we have more and more of that. Okay, so I'm talking about this when people themselves think that they are decent Christians, Orthodox. 

So, of course, there are different things, I've talked before, some could be Communists, some could be Pharisees, like in the sense that only laws and rules and all of that matters, rituals, but they don't have, they don't really know who Christ is, but they would think that they are holy. Okay, it will be all about that Pharisee spirit when the Sabbath is more important than human life. There are others, there are these messianic people who think that, not messianic, well, I would say mission-oriented, that would think that, okay, now we have like Moscow, Third Rome, so it has great mission. 

Okay, so we have to protect Moscow and the Holy Rus' and other stuff with weapons, with ballistic missiles and stuff like that. They approve all of that and they think that they are very pious Christians. Or some nationalistic stuff, or some other political stuff. 

Okay, other people have the same obsession about democracy, free world and other stuff like that, which is a secular agenda. It doesn't, it is also a form of Judaism, Christianity. So, they are also possessed by those spirits and they have nothing to do with true Christ. 

And unfortunately, the world will become, not just the world, I'm talking about the Church, I'm talking about the Orthodox Church, there will be more and more people deceived, who've lost true Christ. And this is also very difficult temptation for the Church as a whole, because you see, let's say in an army, when some soldiers, when you're told, okay, that now the enemy, our enemy, they are dressed the same way that you are. Okay, so you never know, you know, this soldier next to you, is he an enemy or he is one of you, on your side.

And people become suspicious of everyone. You are honest, you are, you want to be, you know, fight for the right cause, but you don't know who is next. So, the same thing happens in the Church, when people who love Christ, all of a sudden they discover that people who seem to love him, seem to be in the same Church, seem to be not heretic, but they are foreign to Christ. 

They don't have his love in them, they don't have, it's something else. And as a matter of fact, they are worshippers of the devil already, even unknowingly, unconsciously. So, the true Christians will be looked, will be despised. 

You can even now see how, like, an ecumenist would despise anyone who doesn't believe, who doesn't share his beliefs. And the same with the Pharisees, and the same with these Caesaropapists, who worship Caesar and government, whatever government's agenda is, they would be endorsing it and preaching, promoting it. That is, they would hate anyone who is against them.

Christian, I mean, I'm talking within the Orthodox Church, they would really despise you, they would not have any love, they would have you rather die than, well, maybe they tolerate you, but you will be an obstacle, okay? They will not be happy that you exist. So, this will be the situation more and more, brothers and sisters. We need, of course, not to worry that we will be harmed in some way, no. 

We need to worry about ourselves, if we remain loyal to Christ, if we remain among those who are not deceived, even within the Church, by any worldly spirit, that we are faithful to the apostolic faith, that we are compassionate to our brothers and sisters, okay? That we are vigilant, that we are praying, we're truly praying to Christ, and not just saying some words written on the paper. It used to be much more evident, many things, but now it's becoming very blurred, and only through standing in Christ, through sincere love towards him, through deepening this conscious relationship with him on a daily basis, total sacrifice of selfishness, mortifying of our old self, only that can bring us to be part of true Church of Christ, okay? Nothing else will be sufficient. If the priest is deceived, most of the parish is deceived, the whole thing, you will be deceived, okay? Sooner or later, you will also be deceived.

It's very spiritual. It's not just coming from the head. So, let us be always craving for true Christ, searching for him, not being satisfied at where we are in terms of spiritual situation, okay? Always finding new possibilities to grow in Christ, to bring more food for Christ, to do better testimony for his kingdom. 

May our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of us, keep us in vigilance, teach us to love, prayer, fasting, asceticism, to be wise and loyal servants of his grace, I mean. Glory to God. God bless, brothers and sisters.