Dear brothers and sisters, we have just entered the Dormition Land. It is from August 14th till August 27th. It's exactly two weeks, and on August 28th we celebrate the Dormition of the Theotokos.

Today I want to say about Dormition and how it's different from death of ordinary people, of sinners. And also, why is it so important that we enter into this land? Why do we have to keep those lands? What is the significance of these feasts that we have? And we will see that it's very important that we are part of this life of the whole Church. Okay, this is, it seems to be not related to this question of death, Dormition, but is directly related. 

Okay. Well, Dormition of the Most Holy Theotokos is a great joy to us. It is the achievement of all her life. 

And we call it Dormition, not death, even though it's the same thing. We call it Dormition because for a saint, his life is crowned by his death. And his death is just a beginning of next stage in his life. 

Okay. And it will be Dormition in the sense that he will be asleep till the second coming. Because for the full joy, it is necessary that we are full in our bodies. 

Okay. We are whole. We're not body and soul separate. 

Okay. So, even though the saints, they already enjoy the heavenly life, and they are already with Christ, it is still the time of expectation, the time of waiting for yet another completion. Okay.

And all their life is preparation for this meeting with the Lord upon this termination of their earthly life. And also, it is celebration because for them, they are not anymore subject to all this evil of this world. They're not subject to these passions that we have because of our carnal nature. 

And it will be this culmination of our life as Christians. Okay. The Lord will make our death, if we love him, he will make it glorious in the eyes of the Church, which is the most important.

So, in this sense, we can see how the Lord's death was a feast for everyone because it was the path to salvation. It was the completion of his mission that he was sent for, and he overthrew death on the cross. And in the same sense, we celebrate death of saints who are also sealed, whose life, whose example to us is sealed by God through their death. 

Okay. So, in this way, the direction of Our Lady is completely different from death of sinners. Okay. 

So, now, let us see what is the death of sinners and who are the sinners. Sinners are everyone who are not with Christ, who are not yet glorified, cleansed, sanctified by his grace. Okay. 

It is either people who don't believe in him yet. Okay. Pagans, atheists, they are not clean because of all the wrong ideas, all the wrong ways of life that they have.

Okay. Their path is astray from the Lord. Okay. 

Even though some of them may be seeking truth, okay, and also the faithful who do not bring the fruits of faith, okay, who do not witness Christ, they are also unclean. Okay. So, all of these people, their death is not glorious. 

It's not celebration. Okay. It's something else. 

Okay. So, now, let us talk a little bit about what it is. Let us go back to the Exodus. 

Okay. When the people of Israel, the people, the Jews, they left in Egypt, they were slaves, and they left among those, they were living among these pagans, these Egyptians, who were unclean, who were astray, who were sinners. Okay. 

And the time for this exodus from Egypt, away from slavery, came, and the angel of death was about to come and to slay everyone in every family, every firstborn, be it a man, a son, or it would be an animal, okay, every firstborn would be slayed. So, it's death for them, and it's terrible pain, sorrow for their families. Okay. 

This great loss. And we wonder, how can loving God do such things to people who he has created? Okay. Isn't it the devil who is destroying man, who is making people, okay, sorrowful, who is stealing their life? Okay. 

Well, the answer is not so simple. Okay. So, we are coming to this very difficult question, very sensitive question of theodicy. 

Theodicy in the sense that why has God, in the Old Testament times, has caused so much death and pain? Okay. And some people even reject that it's the same God. Okay. 

So, it is really necessary for us to understand, okay, to understand what was going on, why this happened. Was it the angel of God who has slayed those people, or it was maybe the devil himself? To answer this difficult question, first of all, let us think about the parable. Okay. 

Let's say you would have a son, okay, you have a son, and this son is a bad man, okay, maybe just a character, maybe you've tried to educate him well, but he happened to be really, okay, let's say he is drug addict, he is, okay, stealing, robberies, murders, okay, he is swearing, he is, he commits adultery every day, okay, he's making everybody, everyone else around him suffer, okay, he is propagating all this filthiness, dirt, sin, okay, and you know that he's getting worse and worse day by day, okay, and when you talk to him, you see that he is getting worse, okay, there is no sign for repentance coming, okay. Of course, as a loving parent, you would be hoping for repentance, you would be hoping that one day he'll become different, okay, but, and also, let's say your son, he is always escaping the policemen every day, they're trying to catch him, and every day he is escaping, and he's fine, and everybody else is suffering, and even these policemen are dying, he's killing them, okay, let's imagine, you know, action movie. So, if you are a normal person, okay, no matter how much you love your son, I think at some point you would be thinking about, maybe it's better for him to catch my son, okay, if there is no death penalty, let's say, he will just be in the prison for a number of years, maybe there he will come to his mind, to his senses, and maybe he'll repent, and well, at least he won't make so many people suffer, okay, because it's getting worse and worse every day, you see those families, they cry because he's killed their relatives. 

So, your wish for him to be in prison is not in contradiction with your love, okay, be honest, it's not a contradiction, you really hope that, okay, it's better for him and for everyone else that he sits in the prison for some time, okay. Well, if you can allow for that, let's now imagine that you are God, okay, and God knows for sure if he will repent or not, okay, he gives everyone free will, but he knows, he can foresee, okay, from the state that you are in now, he can foresee in future are you going to repent or not, and if he knows, if you know that he will not repent for sure until the end of his days, okay, and you know that he will be facing God at the end of his life, and he will bring all that sin, all that stuff that he's committed to that judgment that he'll be facing, you would wish him die soon, sooner than that, okay, you would hope that he would end his miserable life sooner. Sorry, are you wishing your son to die? Are you hoping that he's gonna die young, soon? Well, you are, you are, you would be wishing for that, and this doesn't contradict that you are a good parent, sorry, there is no contradiction that you love him, you love him, and that's why you want him to end his life earlier, this may seem terrible, but this is logical, there is no big mystery about it, okay, so wishing for that could be coming out of love, okay, so this, of course, is just a parable, okay, in when God looks at us and when he is deciding if we're gonna be dead or not, of course, he would have much more wisdom and much more love than you and me, okay, but we can say that when, whenever he sees that his beloved creature is spoiling every day, spoiling this world, he's spoiling himself, getting worse and worse, this is what happened clearly before the flood, before the flood, we see that the Lord regretted that he created these humans, okay, because why? Because his spirit is blasphemed in them every day, because when you are, every one of us, everyone in this world is created according to his image, and that means that we have his breath in us, and having God's breath, we do all these ugly things, okay, to ourselves, to others, in front of others, okay, and when, so this is a great blasphemy against God, and seeing this blasphemy, the Lord also saw that they became like those vessels of clay, of that tempered clay, okay, the pottery, okay, and it will be crushed, it has to be crushed, there is no other way, there is no way to remold it, okay, to make it new, it just has to be crushed, and that's what he's done, okay, and the way he's done it is not by actively killing someone, but actually by withdrawing his spirit, his breath of life, he sort of takes out his breath of life and people die, okay, it could take different shapes and forms, of course, but in essence, this is what happens, okay, this is what happens when the Lord withdraws his grace, withdraws his spirit from men, they die, okay, massively, so this is what happens, this is what happened during this time when the Jews were about to be taken out of Egypt, and they lived with these Egyptians, and all of them, okay, it's not only Egyptians, both Egyptians and the Jews were unclean, all of them were not living life pleasing to God, no, so the judgment had to come upon everyone, okay, and at that moment, the Lord said that, okay, now you Jews, he said it through Moses, okay, if you do this ceremony, you sacrifice this lamp, and you use this sacrificial blood, and you put it on the doors, and on these, okay, in the whole door entrance, okay, this frame, the whole frame, then they will not, you will not have that angels, that angel of death will pass by, okay, he will not kill your people, your family members, and he will do that for two reasons, okay, the first reason is that his love, special love towards the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and these people are descendants of the patriarchs, so because of their fathers, he will have a special, special grace, okay, special mercy upon them, okay, this is not my explanation, this is Saint Cyril of Alexandria, he's explaining this part of the exodus in this way, so that's the first reason, and the second reason is for this great project that the Lord is going to accomplish, okay, this project for which purpose he has created this world, okay, to bring salvation, to bring Messiah, okay, to establish this union, to liberate people, and make them one with him, okay, and this can be done through these people of Israel, okay, so these people of Israel, their descendants, okay, they will become like the seed of the kingdom of God in this world, and through this seed, this kingdom will be brought upon this this land, and it will spread itself to the whole world, to all the nations, through the church, okay, so they had to become this seed, okay, those Israelites, okay, those Jews, even though they were not worthy, and for that reason all of them died, but two, okay, all of the others have died in that desert, because of their lack of belief, because of their pagan mindset, because of their greed for money, we see how much gold they brought, they've made this big cow of gold from the stuff that they brought, okay, do you carry so much gold with you when you go travel, or when you do have so much gold on you, those people, like just regular people, they had tons of gold with them, that means that they cared so much for that gold, okay, which also, okay, shows us that most likely they were not so religious in the sense of just seeking the kingdom of God and his truth, they were very materialistic, okay, and eventually all of them died, and it's their kids, their children who inherited this promised land, and who became these transmitters of this Lord's will in this history of the world, and knowing that this project will be accomplished through them, through their children, the Lord has spared them, okay, and seeing if they will do what he's done, what he told them, okay, they had to do the sacrament of Christ, okay, that there was this mystery of Christ's passion that was already manifesting itself through this lamp, this sacrifice of lamp, that they had to do this Passover, okay, this Pesach meal that they had to have, and that was the day of judgment, and brothers and sisters, we now, we live in the times of just judgment, we have so many people die now of war, of this sickness, okay, of all kinds of of this food which is poisoned, okay, of all kinds of problems, okay, so many people die young, so now it is time of this judgment, okay, it's not that the Lord is hating people, he just, he sees that, okay, we have people who don't know Christ, and they are not seeking for truth, and they become fixed in this routine life, mammonistic life, why bother, why have them, okay, live another 30, 50 years, okay, just die soon and finish, you won't have to be responsible for all the stupid decisions that you're gonna make in the future, and the goes for the faithful, who don't bring the fruit of faith, who do not do testimony, okay, who do not love Christ, okay, who don't have this resurrection working in them, why you have it, okay, these people, they call themselves Christians, and they are, they are polluting this world with their lifestyle, they give this bad example, they, because of them, the Lord's name is humiliated, okay, they betrayed, they've betrayed Christ, they've betrayed the church, okay, why give them more chance to sin, let them die, okay, this, these things may sound very strange to you, brothers and sisters, it's not this humanistic, you know, rosy kind of worldview, that, okay, it's, you just live, everything is fine, okay, you just enjoy your life, and God just wants you to play around, to, to, to jump around, to, to indulge in all those things that you indulge in, to develop those passions more and more, no, sorry, God is not like that, he is loving father, he wants people to be people, okay, not to be something else, the demons, so, this is why, brothers and sisters, this is why these fasts, the whole church tradition is so important, because we want to be with those who are participating in this salvation plan, we want to be with the mother of God, we see that through her God has accomplished this great project, okay, so, now, by fasting during these days, these two weeks before the Dormition, we, we want to become participants in this project accomplished through mother of God, okay, we want to be, you know, you know, we want to be someone in whom the Lord puts some hope, okay, that somehow his project can be accomplished through us and not spoiled, okay, so, this is why it's not necessary, it's not, it's necessary not only to keep the fast, okay, these formalities, no, but it's important to both keep the fast and understand, appreciate this meaning, the spiritual meaning of the fast, to grow spiritually during the fast, okay, this is the only way, okay, for us to not be counted among those going into corruption, okay, losing life, losing, losing God, losing union with him, okay, we don't want to follow this path of the heretics, this path of the atheists, of those philosophers, these mind worshipers, okay, or these mammonists who just care about, you know, consumption, some joyful entertainment every day, or some just, just worldly stuff, career, this and that, okay, when we see now what people are talking about, they're just talking about earthly stuff, just earthly stuff, okay, even philosophers now you don't find many, okay, or poets, okay, it's just now becoming more and more just earthly, down to earth, very practical, okay, or politics, or whatnot, it's all related to this world, to this carnal world, okay, like the snake feeds on this filthiness that's thrown on the ground, the whole mankind becomes like that, so let us not be part of it, brothers and sisters, let us not get dependent on this food, this junk food that they feed us through this media, through this, you know, social platforms, and through all this stuff, through AI, through all those things, let us not be dependent on that, let us all be in prayer, okay, ministry to our Lord, staying always vigilant and ready to meet our Lord, and always craving to do a better testimony, okay, for every one of us, we need to know that our main goal in this life as Christians is to do testimony, okay, through our life, through what we do, through how we work, through how we commemorate, communicate with our family, okay, through our prayer, through everything, okay, may the Lord keep us in his grace, give us, grant us healing to our souls, direction, guidance to us on every day, and may he help us grow spiritually during this fast of their mission, I mean, through the prayers of most holy Theotokos, may the Lord help us and give us his blessing, I mean, merry fast, brothers and sisters, I mean.