Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Transfiguration of the Lord. Today we celebrate this feast. Today is exactly August 19th. 

I will put this video up for a few days later, but we will be still celebrating Transfiguration. And during these days of Transfiguration, I want to share with you what really has happened on those mountains. Okay, you see these mountains behind me. 

I want you to feel what happened and how relevant this is for us today. Before coming up to the mountain, the Lord told to the disciples and to the people around him that there are some of you standing here who will not taste death until they will see the kingdom of God come in power. So, he takes them to this Mount Thabor, and on that mountain, the clouds are coming, covering the mountain, and they see the Lord in the bright white clothes, surrounded by bright light, and Moses and Elijah coming and talking to him about his Golgotha, about him coming to his glory on the cross. 

And they cannot look at it, so they fall down and they die, they become like dead. Okay, because they were not yet ready for such power to be accomplished, to be achieved. And then they come down from that mountain and they see all this earthly pain and suffering and unbelief of the disciples and Pharisees, and all kinds of, you know, problems, tortures, and the Lord is chasing the demon out of the child.

Okay, so today I want to show how this relevant, how this is so much relevant to us, and how far we are from the kingdom of God, from his church even, if this is something purely theoretical. Okay, if it doesn't constitute anything in our life, in our hearts. Okay, because this is the purpose why the Lord comes to bring the kingdom of heaven down on earth, so that the kingdom of God can be accomplished in power on this earth, this physical created earth. 

And when we emphasize, okay, the kingdom of God is after life, you go to heaven, to hell, or to hell, or it's summer in the skies, you have those angels and saints in the skies. But us, we just live in this world, okay, we have our earthly daily routine, and we just hope that at some point we enter into that kingdom. No, brothers and sisters, this is not what the Lord came for. 

Okay, and to talk about this, let us first go back to the times before the Lord, when the people of Israel, that Old Testament church, they were expecting Messiah. And they were, in their expectations, they were divided into different movements. Sometimes they're called sects, but it's a negative word. 

It's like movement, different movements. They had Pharisees, Sadducees, and they also had the Essenes. Okay, the Essenes who lived in that Qumran, you know, in the desert of the Dead Sea. 

And you all know about the Dead Sea Scrolls, which were discovered recently in the 40s. And now we know much more about these people, okay. And it's also quite interesting that they are not mentioned in the Gospels, nor in any books of the New Testament, okay.

And even though it was a big, it was a big movement, okay, it's described by Josephus, and by Philo, and by, you know, even by some non-religious historians of that time. And I can guess, it's just my guess, that they're not mentioned because there was quite a respect for them. Even though they had mistakes, okay, they were a sect, okay. 

They could not have the whole truth, because the Lord has not come yet. But there was a deep respect to them from the Lord and from the disciples, because they were so eager in their quest, in their eagerness for what? For the kingdom of God, brothers and sisters, okay. While Pharisees, they emphasized you do this, you keep, okay, these precepts, they added so many more, okay, you need to go into this mikvah, to wash all the time, to have this impurity. 

They've emphasized the ritual, okay, they emphasized some external things. But the Essenes, okay, they were also Jews, okay, they were also part of this Old Testament church. So, what they've done? Okay, they've done, they went away from this city, they saw this filthiness, corruption of this civilization, okay, like Hermes.

They did not have, you know, private property, they shared everything, okay, they lived like this community of saints, okay, they prayed all night, okay, they have every night service, they had so many prayer services during the day also, okay, they were fasting, well, seriously, they were also preserving celibacy, okay, because, okay, they had women, men living there, but they were not like families, they could not have children, they were, you know, this messianic, eschatological community, who were craving like crazy for the coming of the true Messiah. And they saw that this Messiah will make their dream come true. And what was their dream? Their dream was to unite the kingdom of heaven with the earthly reality. 

And, for example, they even had a liturgy, it was called angelic liturgy. And this angelic liturgy meant that, okay, there are angels in the heavens who are praising God, and this is mirrored in this world by whom? By us. So, in this mirror relationship, we are one, okay, if you are Orthodox, this will remind you right away of what? Of divine liturgy, and of the cherubic hymn, when we chant that we are representing the cherubim, and we sing the thrice holy hymn. 

And in this hymn, we also emphasize this now, during the great entrance, okay, during the coming of the king of all, we are all standing here as the cherubim. And actually, we don't differ from them in any sense, okay, so it is the cherubic reception of him. So, this dream which the Athenians had was accomplished by Christ in his church. 

And the dream was that heaven, that the kingdom of God is united with this, with us, mortal man and woman, and this kingdom of God is present here on earth. And this was done by our Lord, and he has opened this door, and he showed to us what it looks like in the transfiguration, brothers and sisters. So, this experience, this experience of the uncreated light of Mount Thabor, that we saw on transfiguration, that the disciples saw, it was present, it was experienced by many hesychasts, many people of prayer, many people during the divine service, during the liturgy. 

And many people, they have, it's called consolation. Consolation is when the Holy Spirit comes down on you and you are, you feel that this is the kingdom of God, you are in his kingdom, his peace, the joy of his kingdom comes to your heart, it's transcending time, it's transcending space. And this is the reality that the church leaves. 

As long as we don't have any clue, any experience of this reality, well, sorry, we are not the church. Even we can call ourselves orthodox, 10 times orthodox. And we are not children of Christ, we're not children of his sons and daughters. 

We're still wandering around, we're still searching. So, now is the time, brothers and sisters, for us to think deeply about these things, okay? To pray. It's also now time of prayer and fasting. 

The Dormition Lent is going, we're still in it, and we need to be serious about this. We need to be very serious about this, okay? Now, let us think about the world agenda, okay? Because the world agenda is something external to this kingdom, okay? And if we care more about this agenda than about matters pertaining to the kingdom of God, what we call our spiritual life, and our ministry to the Lord, our mission that he gives to us, if we care about this less than world events, agenda, okay, this president's meet, or whatever, or the economy, or even that digital gulag that they are hoping to bring about, okay? If we care about that more than we care about our spiritual life, than we care about the me and Christ, than we care about discovering the kingdom of God, and covering him in the divine liturgy, okay? In becoming the body of Christ within our church. If we don't care about that, this, so much, sorry, we are not his children, okay? So, as soon as we become his children, as soon as we are in Christ, it will be the world which will be adjusting to our agenda, because we are the kingdom of God. 

The God and his kingdom which comes in power will be what decides everything else, okay? And certainly, we will not be like in this ivory tower, okay? Because the disciples with Christ, they also did not stay on Mount Thabor, okay? Having experienced this power, this might of the Lord, they came down, and the Lord chased that demon out, and taught his disciples the truth, he strengthened their faith. So, this is what the church, this is what we as his children are called to do, okay? Being linked, being one with him in his kingdom here on earth, we go and we change this world, okay? We transform, we chase out any deceit, any darkness, any sin, okay? Anything foreign, anything evil which is still out there in this world, and this is also the reason why we emphasized healing so much, okay? Because the church is called to be the healers of this world, the healer of this world, we are healing, we are the ones who bring people in agreement with their creator, we are the ones through whom Christ can touch and can heal these wounded souls of so many people suffering out there in this world. This is our calling, this is our mission. 

So, today, brothers and sisters, let us also, together with the disciples, ascend into Mount Thabor with our Lord, ask him to make us worthy to receive this revelation, to become part of his kingdom, which comes in humbleness. There are many paradoxes in divine revelation. The kingdom comes in humbleness, it comes to humble heart, it comes through repentance, through discovering that you are the worst, but at the same time it makes you the chosen, it makes you the precious in the eyes of the world.

So, there are paradoxes which we cannot really understand unless we have this experience, brothers and sisters. So, may the Lord bring peace, bring joy, bring consolation to our hearts, bring healing to the wounds that we have, and make us partakers of his grace, give us courage to continue the mission that he gives to us, give us wisdom to understand this mission, and how to go about achieving it, and make us strong in face of any challenges that there might be, and not to be deceived by the spirit of this world, which is trying to sway people away. We can see that people, as soon as they lose this experience, I'm talking about Christians, Orthodox, as soon as they lose this belongingness, they go where? They go into heresy, they go into communism, they go into pursuing fake delusions, career, property, I don't know, money, hobbies, whatever, you name it, okay, or they go to this routine, okay, just to live, to eat, and eat, to live, okay, but there is much more that the Lord is giving to all of us.

There's a great freedom, there's great spiritual freedom, and so many talents that he is bestowing upon us, as soon as we cling to him, we open our hearts to him, we love him, and we love everyone around us, I mean, may the Lord's joy, his light, his immortal kingdom be with you, brothers and sisters, on this day of transfiguration, this day's transfiguration, I mean, Merry Transfiguration!