Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Dormition of the Holy Theotokos. On August 28th, the Holy Church celebrates the Dormition, and we will celebrate it for nine days until September the 6th. And today I want to share with you what do we celebrate. 

Okay, why there is such a long celebration? So, nine days, it's like Christmas. After Christmas, we celebrate. What do we celebrate? Why is it joyful? What is joyful about death of someone whom we love? This relates to the mystery of death, this mystery of another world. 

This world, this life is going to end. Every one of us, when we are children, I remember when I was maybe around five, I had that question. Okay, now I'm alive, my parents, my grandparents are alive, but at some point, all of us are going to die. 

That was a big shock to me at that point. Okay, at that point, of course, parents, they just tell you, don't think about it. It's gonna be like so far away.

Don't even think about it. Pretend that there is no death. Okay, just leave. 

Enjoy your life. Okay, don't ask these questions. But being responsible, and especially when we become Christians, we do ask this question. 

What is next? Why do we leave if it's all going to be over? Okay, why do we leave? Okay, for example, we have something, we have some object, we use it, then it's over, we throw it to the garbage, and we forget about it. It will decompose in some garbage processing facility. It will be destroyed, annihilated. 

So, it's irrelevant anymore. Okay, we forget about it. Okay, you use a cup, you use a paper cup, you throw it out, you forget about it. 

So, is our life like this? Well, when we look now at the wars or big epidemics, when millions of people die, this may be the picture. Okay, but why so many people die? Or for historians, people who study history, archaeology, they dig through these layers of ground, of soil, and then they discover things which were like 5,000 years ago. And during this excavation, every layer has thousands of people buried in that layer. 

So, people who deal with these kind of things, they might have this professional deformation. They might think, well, human life is really not so important. You have so many humans died, dead. 

So, I will be dead also, and people will forget about me. Well, not this kind of logic for us Christians. And this is what I want to share with you about, brothers and sisters. 

Before I do that, let me share with you about the mother of God, because it's her dormition that we celebrate. Well, we don't know much about her during her life. In the Bible, of course, we find the record about the mother of Jesus. 

We read about her in the Gospel of Matthew, especially this narration about the birth of Christ and early childhood. Then we see her a few times during the adult years of the Lord. Remember when she asked for those celebrating the marriage in Cana of Galilee, and that she asked the Lord to help them. 

And even though he said it's not time yet, but still he has turned water into wine to make them capable to celebrate, to continue the celebration, and to bless this marriage, and to begin his ministry, actually. Because after the miracle, that was a very important starting point for his mission as Messiah. And we read about her in the Acts of the Apostles, okay, a few times. 

She was the one who was in the prayer around her, all the apostles gathered on that day of the Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit came down on the apostles. Okay, we can actually see quite a lot in the in the Gospel according to Saint Luke, where he gives us such details as a prayer of the Holy Theotokos, which only her could remember. Okay, she was putting these as treasures in her heart. 

Okay, it's recorded there. Why? Because these were the treasures that he was hearing, that he was extracting from her heart and recording for us. And these great treasures are given to us, but we don't know much. 

Okay, it's not like Apostle Peter. We know about him, how he preached, how he did this and that, and even more about Apostle Paul, about all his journeys, his missions. But her ministry was different. 

Okay, her ministry was this model ministry of humble heart, because the humble heart will put herself in the shadow. You won't hear much. Okay, she is this model Christian who is in the background, but it's actually her who is doing most of the things. 

Okay, this, for example, life example, when you come to somebody's house and you feel this atmosphere of warmth, of care, of love, you don't really understand where does it come from, but it would come usually from the wife and she would be just quietly helping, serving, bringing some dishes. Okay, you will not hear big stories from her or some big events, some accomplishments. No, but you will feel it will create everything. 

Okay, so this very special ministry, very special, it's coming through self-sacrifice, it's coming through humbleness, and that virtue that the Mother of God, she expressed, she showed, she brought through her life was so important to the whole church that for the whole church her Dormition became such an important event. It's the greatest event, greatest celebration of the Holy Theotokos in the church, brothers and sisters. We have more feasts, we have the Dormition, we have the Nativity of Theotokos, we have the Annunciation, we have quite a few, but Dormition is the main one. 

Dormition is the main one because it is giving us this completion of her life as a final celebration, the feast. Okay, the end of the journey in this world for every Christian is the... it's like a stamp. Yes, it's done, it's great, okay, you've succeeded. 

This is why it's also displayed as crowns, okay, for those in competition. Apostle Paul says, run so that you may get the crown, the wrath. So, she has completed this journey and she has done everything that she had to do, okay, she fulfilled the Lord's will upon her. 

And the Holy Tradition is telling us how that happened and I suggest you all read this account, because today this is not the main goal of my video, okay. There is a detailed account how the apostles were gathered on that day and she departed when the Lord with the angels came and took her soul and then there was the procession and burial and they've stayed there for three days near this tomb and on the third day another apostle came, he also wanted to see her to say farewell and they opened and she wasn't there, okay, she was taken to the heavens, okay, she went in the same way as the Lord, okay, through this resurrection and the same way as Apostle John also, his body was not found because he was taken, he was taken. So, this brings us also to this mystery of what is next, okay, what is beyond the tomb, beyond the end of this world for me, for you. 

Apostle John is telling us that those who love Christ from their whole heart they will pass from life to life, okay, they will not taste death. How can they taste death if they already receive life in them? Christ himself is living in them, how can they taste death, brothers and sisters? They cannot taste death. If we have Christ living in us, you will not have death. 

Don't worry, okay, I'm telling you, don't worry about death, worry about losing Christ through sin, through darkness, through deception, through carnal, you know, passions that are dragging us, trying to drag us away through when we have this lack of repentance, we are slothful, we are lazy, okay, we are worldly, we're dragged by some passions somewhere else, okay, away from Christ, that's what we need to be afraid of. Okay, so she passed from life to life and it is a matter of receiving the Lord's kingdom that will be beyond, okay, we wait for the age to come and we know that even when there will be a second coming it will not be the end of the world, brothers and sisters, it will be the end of the age, it will be the end of the age, that's the correct translation of the Greek that we read, end of this age, the world will not end, okay, this age will end and we are waiting for the next age, for the upcoming age. And you see some saints, they receive a resurrection even earlier, even before this common resurrection that we will have upon the Lord's second coming. 

Of course, this all is a great mystery, it's a great mystery, but we need to learn many things from this mystery, okay. Another thing that we need to, that we can talk about, okay, is the significance of life and death, because on one hand every moment of our life is precious for the Lord and for us, if we're Christians, okay, you will see through spiritual life we discover more and more that we don't want to lose our time for some useless stuff, okay, I don't know, playing games, you know, watching some movies or, you know, useless stuff, because every moment we can bring fruits to the Lord, we can discover mysteries, his wisdom, we can accomplish his deeds that he is calling us to accomplish, we can have so much accomplished in one day, in one hour, okay, maybe in one moment sometimes, and we don't want to lose that moment by being slothful or lazy or dormant, you know, so on the one hand it's so important, it's so precious every single day, every single hour of our life, but at the same time the life is not absolute value. What do I mean by that? Normally, when people live, you know, when we live in this secular, like ordinary life, we would think that, okay, anything is less important than my life, okay, I don't want to die, I want to live, I want to do this and that, so death may be so fearful, because we think, well, everything loses meaning, or whatever I learn, whatever I do, like, maybe I accumulate some property, this and that, books we have, I don't know, my resume, my relationship, my family, everything will be gone if I die, so the death is just absolute thing, everything else I can sacrifice, but not my life. 

This is normal idea, this also humanist idea, which says that human life is above everything else. Well, even in this secular world, even in this evil world, we see that this is not the case. For example, the logic of war. 

I've been to the places of war, and there is different logic, okay. Imagine that you are in the war with armor, okay, every day you are getting some tasks, okay, now we have a task, okay, we need to conquer this height, okay, we need to accomplish this. If you are really a soldier, if you're really into it, you will value this task more than your life. 

You'll say, we need to do it, okay, we go and do it, me, my comrades, okay, we go and do it. If I die, who cares, okay, I die, I'm ready to die, my comrades will accomplish this, somebody is not gonna die, so we're gonna do it, okay, we just go and do it. Unless you have this logic that your personal life is less important, you will not be able to fight, I'm telling, okay. 

And I'm now not advocating war, I'm against war, I'm against this logic, okay, but this is just an ordinary life example of how life can become less important, okay. And in the same way, for a Christian who is in the spiritual war, life can be also less important than some things. And this was the logic of martyrs, okay, because for the martyrs, they knew that the will of God is above everything else, okay, so if this will is that we do this testimony and we are thrown to lions in Colosseum, be it so, we are young, we can have many things, but we don't care if this is the will of God, that we testimony, that we do this testimony, that we love him above everything else and he wants us to die in front of all these pagans, be it so, we go and die, why not? It doesn't mean that we don't love life, that we are crazy, we want, you know, easy heavens, okay, we want reward soon, we don't want to labor, no, it was not the logic. 

The logic was if God wants this to happen, it will happen, and we just go and do it. So, when a saint has completed what he had to complete and now it's time for him to end his life, this is a celebration, brothers and sisters, this is a celebration, he has done what he had to do, you have wrote the book that you had to write, okay, you've done it, now you can have some rest, if there is no plan for another book, okay, you've done this book, what next? There's nothing to do, you've done it. So, the same goes for a saint, if the Lord sees that, okay, now you have done what you were supposed to do, what I wanted you to do, you've done it well, okay, now stamp, done, good, accomplished, and the new stage in your life begins, okay, you repose in the Lord for this life, and now there will be, if you are a saint, you will participate in the life of the church, you will do things, but in the other way, okay, and this was a great mystery, but we know that the saints, they participate in the life of the church and in what happens in this world, okay, so you will still have this opportunity, don't worry, you won't just, you know, wait there, you know, and just do nothing, okay, so there is different logic, and today I wanted to share with you some thoughts about this mystery of life and death, brothers and sisters, that we see, that's uncovering to us through the Dormition of Our Lady.

So, let us all learn from her life, take this example, let us truly have this heart of celebrating this, because nine days of celebration, okay, a joyful celebration. Okay, one last thing that I want to share with you is that once she passed away, she actually became much closer to the whole church, this was also one of the reasons for this celebration. Why? Well, just think about this analogy, if, say, you have someone who you love so much, you love this person, and he or she dies, if before death he lived far away, he lived far away, you could only write the letters and maybe see him once a year, okay, but you love this person, at some point maybe you had a wonderful time together, then it's over, his life is over, but if he is still in your heart, you will feel much closer, because now you can talk to him anytime, you can feel his presence anytime, you have this photo at your home, you feel his closest, you actually are closer to him now, okay, and no conflict can happen anymore between you, okay, but it's important that the mother of God and any saint, once they're, okay, they accomplish their life and we are sure that they are saints, it's not a doubt anymore, because before someone dies there is always a doubt that he may not accomplish this goal, he may fail before he comes and slip into sin apostasy, but when he completes this path and the Lord gives this seal to his life that he is a saint and, okay, he has pleased the Lord through his life and his death, you can be joyful and you can feel his prayer, his help, his care about you, okay, so this is what we feel, we feel this protection, the view of the mother of God that came upon the church upon her departure, okay, from this world, and the one last thing that I also want to share with you, brothers and sisters, that related to what I've said about this great value, why it's so valuable that everything that you can do today, this hour, is so important to the Lord, we need to think about our lives, we're still alive, you and me, we're still alive, this means that we are sort of entering into some rule like guests, and while we're in this room, we need to do something good, because very soon we will go away, this is our presence in this world, okay, it's quite short, it's quite short, when you look, if you go to the cemetery or you just open some encyclopedia and read about different people, you'll see two days, okay, year 1943 to 2001, okay, you see two days and these two days tell you everything that this person lived, this was the span when he was in the room and then he departed, okay, and for many people, unfortunately, they waste this, they waste this, and as I described, you have some object to throw in the garbage can and you forget it, unfortunately, for many people their life is like that, okay, I'm sad to say that, but that's reality, nobody knows their names, even if you know their name, so what, I mean, it's all gone, but if they've produced something valuable in the eyes of the Lord, then most likely this will bring fruit for centuries to come, to the numberless people, this will bring, and this will be so precious in the eyes of the Lord, that even though they are gone, their life is over, this treasure is out there, okay, because they were in the Lord and the Lord allowed them to do something meaningful in his eyes, just as an example from secular life, okay, I come back to secular examples, we have millions, billions of people who lived, say, after Plato, Plato lived in the 4th century BC, 2400 years ago, and now you cannot find his bones, you cannot find even his relatives, his descendants, you cannot find anything related directly to him, maybe you can dig into ground two meters deep, okay, you can imagine, it's like this ceiling, okay, two and a half meters deep, you dig into, you go to Athens, let's say, you dig into that and you find some objects of his time, because it's so much time has passed after that, so many people lived after him, but we still know about him and we can read his book, and moreover, his book has produced so much effect throughout these generations until today, I'm not talking, not saying it's good or it's bad, but he was able to write something to leave something behind that has created so much influence, okay, this is just an example, this is just a secular example of how, you know, this coming into this room and living, even though it was short, but it can produce some great, important, valuable results, good or bad, sometimes it's bad, you know, some monsters, we have Lenin or something else, it's terrible, they came here just for a few years, but they've spoiled so many lives, done so many evil things, okay, so let us be very serious about every day that we have, let us search for the Lord, that he may be in us, that we may live in him and he may guide us, you know, to accomplish what he wants, okay, and we may wear the shoes, okay, like in the Pascha, in the Pesach, the Old Testament times, they had to be closed, girded with the belt and wearing their shoes, like going to walk, we are on this walk, brothers and sisters, for us, this whole life is Pascha, it's passing through, okay, we are guests here and our death is also Pascha, it's passing to another, okay, we were not relaxed, okay, we were not this relaxed situation, just enjoy your life, okay, don't think about things, no, we are very responsible, we are ready to face challenges, we are ready to always accomplish the will of God, may the Lord help us know this will and accomplish this will every day of our life, I mean, through the prayers of most holy Theotokos, may our Lord Jesus Christ give joy and blessing to every one of you on this holy Dormition, I mean, God bless you.