Dear brothers and sisters, on September 11th we commemorate beheading of Saint John the Prophet, the forerunner and Baptist of the Lord. On this day we recall his life and his death, and this is the only feast, if you can call it a feast, of the Church that is a fasting day, strict fasting. All other feasts would be celebration and the fasting would be over if there was fasting before that day. 

But on this day, on September 11th, we are solemnly recalling how the darkness and this hatred and debauchery led to the death of the righteous forerunner and prophet. And at the same time, this day is the day of his glorification. So it's not just sorrow, it's also a day of encouragement, because he gave us the example of someone who was persistent in testimony of the truth until his death, on every day of his life and up until his death.

Today, on this occasion, even though today is already passed, but we still have this memory in our hearts of Saint John, today I want to share with you some thoughts on the project of this evil, on this Babylon, on this mystery of lawlessness, which is working its way in this world at the same time together with this mystery of piety. The mystery of piety that Apostle Paul has referred to, and this is the mystery of the incarnation of God, the Word, and the mystery of salvation, of the establishment of the body of Christ, his Holy Church, and through union of man and God, bringing about this opportunity for everyone to enter into the kingdom of God while still here on earth. And as this mystery develops and has different ways of manifesting itself in the world, so does this mystery of lawlessness.

But first, let's say about the history of this development, of this mystery of piety, because this is for us, is everything, is our everything, is what makes us true Christians and makes us citizens of the heavens while still on earth, already this is heavenly life, as long as we are loyal to our Lord Jesus Christ. And there is no power, no darkness, no man or spirit whatsoever, including the devil itself, including the antichrist or whatnot, or Hitler or any other totalitarian government which might be coming, nothing can split us away from our Lord unless we commit sin and choose darkness. Because the Lord himself said that the prince of this world comes and has nothing with me, nothing to do with me, we have nothing in common, but don't be afraid because I have conquered the world.

Our master, brothers and sisters, is the truth, the life, and the path, and he has conquered the Satan and the darkness. And this is why we must not be afraid of anything as long as we are with him, as long as we love him, as long as we seek his truth. This is to avoid some paranoia or some fears that now there is this omnipresent evil and darkness and it's inevitable, which some people may have, because of the lack of living relationship with Christ. 

For them, God becomes just an idea, Christ becomes just the dogma. Then, of course, it will be all about the antichrist is coming and it's pretty much the end of the world, no hope, despondency, fear, and and running away. So, for us it is not like that, but for us it is so important, brothers and sisters, it is fundamental to understand, to see through all the deception which this prince of the world is trying to impose on the whole earth. 

Because his plans are working. Unfortunately, we need to say that they are working, even though his failing is being delayed, but he is trying to achieve his agenda in one way or another. And he is doing it through people, through people who become brainwashed and deceived and blinded. 

They're blinded either as the flock, as the crowd, the cattle, which are dragged to the slaughter, or they are blinded by this fake light of Lucifer, thinking that they are in possession of some supreme knowledge and wisdom, etc. And they become tools and they become these vessels or the media of this Luciferian plan, knowingly or unknowingly. In my previous videos I have already mentioned about this spirit of Cain and Cainites, among which all of us once were, and to some extent still are. 

As long as we still have that law of sin working in us and allowing it to achieve its goals, as long as we allow some darkness to be still in our mind, in our hearts, we still have that Cain living in us. And now when we see even much more vividly Cain in others, we must not have any condemnation, accusation, or hatred towards them. We have hatred against the devil and all these spirits who are killing their souls and bodies, but not towards the people. 

Having said this, let us now go back to what happened with Saint John the Baptist. When we see the Herod, this representative of Mammon, who was obsessed about his earthly power, who was celebrating his birthday with these earthly rulers and the so-called elite, the so-called wise and smart and capable and talented people, and they were doing a stupid thing. They were watching this perverted performance, these dances. 

So we see here lust, we see here vainglory, we see here this addiction to drugs and all kinds of alcohol. Okay, maybe they didn't have drugs, we don't know, but it's all about this illusion of some fake happiness, this loss of any prudence, of any virtue. And this is the condition of the Herod and this mob, these so-called wise people who became just a mob of drunkards. 

And on the other hand, we have this Herodias, this wife of Philip, brother of Herod, whom he took as his wife. Of course, it was adultery, it was fornication, there was nothing as a marriage. So it was not a second marriage, as some people think, because of false translation of the gospel. 

By the way, this is in the gospel of Mark, chapter 6, 14 to 29, this whole story. And this Herodias, she became even a greater vessel of the devil, because she wanted to kill him. She was in hatred, she was this parasite, this vampire, egoism, selfishness, hatred. 

This is what was ruining this woman. She is representative of Herod of Babylon, of the book of Revelation. And we see her daughter, this vessel of seduction, of perversion, still young, but putting her youth into ministry of the devil. 

This unholy trinity came and slaughtered Saint John. Before he was slaughtered, we can see how all this developed. This developed by him preaching the truth, calling people to repentance, calling people to just and life. 

And Herod, okay, he wanted this power. By the way, he was presenting himself as a messiah of that day. So there were these Herodians, who were not just a political party, but who were these religious adherents, adepts of this sect of Herodians, worshiping pretty much Herod as the savior. 

Because he had this power, he had this charisma. And he, of course, did not refuse all these titles and all this veneration that he got. He did not transfer this to God. 

No, he received it himself. And for him, Saint John the Baptist became a danger, a threat to national security, as we would say now. So he's used his network, okay, to catch him and to put him into jail.

And after he has put him into jail, he played democracy. Okay, he allowed him to come out, he was talking to him. He even enjoyed some of his speech, because he no longer saw it as a threat.

Okay, this is what we have now with this social media, which are censored so much. And in some countries, in Russia, in China, in Nepal recently, okay, they're banning it. They want it to be all controlled, so that the people can be brainwashed. 

They want this totalitarian government in these so-called democratic places like the US and Europe. It's not much better. Okay, it's just taking different ways. 

They're using different things, AI and other stuff, to censor and to control, okay, in more disguised, in more soft way, you can say. For now, it is softer, but it's not going to be easier because of that. Okay, and everything that's pertaining to truth is being banned, okay. 

If it passes some threshold, and who is setting those thresholds, you know who is setting them, okay. We saw it evidently during this time of this sickness, this famous sickness a few years ago. Now we have it relating to these military conflicts, okay, in different parts of the world. 

And it's going to get worse, let's insist, okay. With the AI and with this centralization of everything, of information, it's going to be even worse, okay. The thing is that they're hoping to build it up from up down, but from down up, okay. 

They have this strategy and it proved to work better, okay. But this is another topic. How do they build this Babylon? Okay, so we have this so-called democracy, okay, when he is in prison, but allowed to live and speak.

Okay, but this will not last for too long, brothers and sisters. If you think that you can be in prison with all this dataism, with all this electronic surveillance and everything else, you may say you have nothing to hide, okay, but eventually this prison is going to lead to what? It's going to lead to what happened with John the Baptist, okay. It's going to lead to some combination of these evil forces which will want to destroy you. 

If they cannot pervert you, they will destroy you, okay, unless the Lord will say stop, okay, not yet. And this will be in the righteous ministers of his, he allows them to have this glorious end of their lives by being martyred, okay. This is not a tragedy. 

And what happened with Saint John the Baptist, it was not a tragedy, okay. It was an external manifestation of evil, but it was like a seal of chosenness and righteousness, because this was the Golgotha which preceded the Golgotha of the Lord, okay. And there was a great dignity and respect shown to the whole life and ministry of Saint John the Baptist. 

So, we need to be ready for that, brothers and sisters, not to scare you, but to make you ready. Most importantly, we need to see how this Babylon, this religion of Babylon, okay, we need to be outspoken about it, okay. We need to be cautious about it, because most people will say this is some kind of conspiracy, this is some kind of, and we believe what the bloggers are telling us, we believe what TV is telling us. 

Well, you don't have to believe me, brothers and sisters, you have to check everything, even what I say, okay. Everything that I say, you can go and check, okay. If I claim that the Orthodox Church is the true church, you can check it yourself through theology, through history, okay, through spirituality, you can see, you can compare. 

Don't have to believe me. What I say about the saints, you can go and check, and you'll see that there are saints only in the Orthodox Church, and everything else is fake, okay. So, now we come back to this mystery, this mystery of lawlessness, okay. 

It's working its way through, and it's concealing itself, and it has different ways of manifesting itself, okay. It could be more overt, okay, it could be more open, manifest, taking forms of some systems, some ideologies, fascism, communism, nazism, inclusive capitalism, or how it's called now, this utopian socialism, which they are willing to build now. Okay, this is their dream from the beginning, okay, but now it's happening, it's taking place, okay. 

It could be done through these concealed things, like changing, shaping the minds of people, making them more materialistic, making them more dependent on comfort, on mamo, on passions, okay, making them addicted to drugs, to lust, to all kinds of destructive stuff, okay. And it has its priests, okay, it has its hierarchy, which is not always manifest, okay. It has its different claws, and many different shapes and forms, okay. 

It has its own ways of announcing things to its adepts, its own language, okay, of symbology, okay. It has its own rituals, which they use, okay, so all sacrifices. It is a religion, brothers and sisters, it is concealed, it has its own it's its own logic, and not all of those who serve that religion are even conscious of it, okay. 

Including masons, most of them, they don't have a clue of what is this all about, that they serve. Including Christians, brothers and sisters, and many orthodox, unfortunately, okay, most of them unwittingly, but some are consciously, okay, who become traitors. So, let us be conscious of all that, okay. 

Let us not fall into this naïve, blind, okay, belief in everything we see, in everything we hear, okay. We believe only in our Lord, and he told us to beware of this leaven of Pharisees and Sadducees, and this leaven is spilled all over, brothers and sisters, all over. And unless you develop immune reaction to those things, and you see those seeds of that leaven working in you, and you fight with them every day by the Lord's name, and calling upon his name, and through repentance and spiritual life, you will lose. 

You will ultimately be blinded, okay. I don't want to scare anyone. I want to encourage everyone to lead spiritual life. 

We see that the life of true righteous man, like Saint John the Baptist, it's not an easy life, okay. Don't expect to relax and to gain the kingdom of heaven easily. It doesn't come easily, okay. 

We do receive the peace of the Lord, but it's a spiritual peace. It's not this peace that the usual peace that you are somewhere on the beach with a cocktail and have nothing to worry about with a lot of money in your bank account. Not that kind of peace that the Lord is giving us, okay. 

May the Lord's peace be with all of you, and we are asking Saint John the Baptist to pray for us in these days, so that we may be also same as him, be faithful, be loyal to our Lord every day of our life, okay, which is the most difficult part, and also to have patience and endure to the end. May the Lord be with all of you, brothers and sisters, and God bless. Amen.