Dear brothers and sisters, in last video, while talking about John the Baptist and his testimony about the truth, I've touched about the religion of Babylon and the spirit of Cain, which is behind those who choose to serve Satan. And there are a lot of those conspiratorial authors and books and channels, a lot of which are fiction, alarmism, paranoia, okay? And some of them, which are honest and which are not propagating some kind of agenda, very often are also trapped by the idea that the evil is all-encompassing, that the plan is total, it's unavoidable, and basically is tending towards treating this evil as God, okay? Because they are everywhere, they control the agenda, they control the government, they control finance, they control media, they control your mind, okay? And there is no way out, okay? And even if someone, some of them, are telling you to fight against it, very rarely they tell you what to fight for, just to fight for freedom. So today I want to share with you on the problem of this overemphasis on the mystery of lawlessness. 

This is what it essentially is. And today I want to tell you how this mystery of lawlessness is using symbology which actually comes from God, okay? Okay, well, Apostle Paul, he tells us that there are two mysteries, okay? There is a mystery of piety, okay? And this essentially is about the plan of salvation and coming down of the Lord and his work for our salvation, that he surrendered himself to be crucified, and that he resurrected and arose on the third day, okay? And the whole plan which preceded it and which came after, okay? Until the present day and until the second coming, okay? All of this, the plan of God essentially, which for us is the agenda. And in this plan there is this mystery. 

There is this mystery of piety which I want to talk about today. And the devil is trying to mimic, it's trying to pretend that he is God. He is the monkey of God, okay? He does everything in a pervert way and upside down or backwards. 

Well, he is a deceiver and perverter, okay? But as a matter of fact, because he tries to mimic sometimes what he does and the methods that he uses, they resemble those which pertain, which belong to this mystery of righteousness, mystery of piety, okay? So to most people, both of these mysteries are foreign and they don't even care about it, okay? They just live their life, okay? And even worse than before, because people today tend to think that, well, I know everything better because I am modern man, it's 21st century, we are so enlightened and look at our technology, internet, AI, etc. But honestly, we became much dumber, okay? We became much more carnal and limited in our ability to understand spiritual things, okay? And we are so entangled in this daily routine even much more than people before. And people before, they would be also very busy, of course, but that would be more meaningful work that they've done, okay? And they were able to find time for their family, for their spiritual growth, okay? For going to church, unlike people today, okay? Who find time for anything but prayer, anything but thinking, okay? Using our nose, not just our brain. 

Well, people don't want to even use the brain, okay? Just receive what is told, okay? And that's it. Because that's easy. That's easy. 

You just need to do whatever you're told to do and you are promised some kind of safety, be it the media, be it bloggers, be it even the religious leaders or the churches or some other sects and religious groups, okay? So, today I want to talk about things which are not evident to most of the people and even Christians, okay? Because there is this false perception that we know everything. That we know everything, okay? If you don't know it, just look it up in Wikipedia or go to library and you'll find it, okay? Okay, first of all, let us read the approach which the Lord himself used, okay? When he was talking about this mystery of the heavens, okay? This treasury of heavens which he brought and he preached about it using what? Using parables, okay? This is Mark chapter four. The whole chapter is dedicated to this approach of the Lord himself regarding what is the law of God and to whom and how to teach this law, because this was the main concern of all the people who've studied the law, the law of God, okay? But today I'm not going to talk about the whole chapter and the whole approach, but I will tell you, I'll cite you this verse. 

It's verse 11, followed by the prophecy cited by the Lord in verse 12. So, the verse 11. And he said unto them, his disciples, unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but unto them that are without, outside, all things are done in parables. 

To the people who are outside, who don't follow me, okay? Who just stay in their routine daily life, who don't care, everything is just in parables, okay? And he tells the prophecy that seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted and their sins should be forgiven them. So, brothers and sisters, this is the choice of most people, not to care about any mysteries, any spirituality, any true relationship with God, the kingdom of heaven, not to have to change anything, but just passively listening to something, to someone doing what we are told to do and hoping that, okay, this will bring out some safety, some results, some salvation at some point, okay? And this results in them understanding nothing and becoming even worse than pagans, thinking that they're Christians, okay? So, first we need to understand this use of these parables, because parables is what? It's something that could be understood, could be remembered by everyone, okay? And this is also like the symbology, the symbology that is used by Christians in the early church, in the church today, okay? These symbols or numbers or any signs, okay, or formula that are used during the divine services, this is all what can be heard by people. They can remember, they can see, but nothing else, okay? The Lord says that it is only to those who would decide to follow him, he will reveal the meaning of these parables, okay? And he will reveal the mystery of the symbols that there are. 

However, now people think that they know everything already, that they have been taught everything, okay? So, they say, well, okay, but later he tells the disciples the true meaning and we can read it in the gospel and we know, now we know, okay? We are smart and if we don't see, don't find it in the gospel, we'll find it in the holy fathers, we will find it in those theological bible scholars, we'll find it in libraries, we'll find it, it's everything open, everything, we know everything, we, the mankind, we are so enlightened, so bright, so smart. This is a great mistake, brothers and sisters, because if we would be participants and partakers of these mysteries, we would be holy people, we would have holy life, because Christ himself would live in us, but apparently this is not the fact, okay? For most of us, maybe all of us. So, today I want to tell you, I want everyone to understand what the true meaning of symbology and the approach, the path to that ministry is and how it's in some way similar, but in the fundamental way different from what those kabbalists and all those occultists have to offer, all those masons and all those people who love some kind of secrecy and mystery, etc., with some evil agenda.

So, the mystery is opening itself only to those who are spiritual, okay? Who love Christ, who choose to follow him, to follow his commandments. It's not through symbols that we approach God, it's not by putting a lot of crosses and more icons, through that way we will reach, we will become closer to God. No, that's not the function of the science and all the images and everything that represents or hints at the kingdom of heaven. 

That's not the talisman, it's not some kind of magical thing, like a fetish thing that is... The more you have it, the better off you are, okay? It is a reminder, it is given to us because we are carnal, okay? We are physical, and that's why the Lord wants to give us this, so we can see, we can feel, okay? The Holy Communion, we can taste, okay? We can swallow it, okay? There is nothing wrong with it, okay? But we just need to understand that this is about a union with the true God, okay? It's about love, about change of heart, about this blessed state of the soul, with the great virtues of following Christ and sacrificing yourself. But the religion of the satanists, of these people of Antichrist, okay? It's completely different, okay? And it's actually something that departed from the family of God, the people of God, that was when Cain, he left the house of his father Adam and mother Eve, and he went away, and he established the city, etc., okay? So, that's why there is this betrayal of God, as Satan betrayed God. In the same way, all these ministers of this evil agenda, they betray God, all these priests and adepts of this religion, okay? And they do care, okay? The smart ones, okay, the ones who are more advanced, they do it consciously, okay? There are many who do it unconsciously, okay? But first, let's think about symbolism as they understand it, okay? We see all these symbols all around us, okay? Whenever you do a little bit of research into that topic, which I've touched upon on the last topic, you'll see that we have so many different numbers and signs and everything else, they're leaving these traces, these signs to each other, these messages, these codes, okay? We see that, okay? And for them, this is also something that is uniting them to that reality. 

So, the symbol in the church is not just some sign, okay? It's something that has inherent union with what is representing, what is symbolized. There is this mystical union between the two, okay? And the same goes for these signs of these evil people, okay? And these evil people, they also understand that it's spiritual, okay? There is some kind of spirit, there is some power. They call it magic, they call it forces, etc, okay? They're capitalists or later it becomes some other stuff, new age, be it or be it some other stuff, all that symbology of these communists and socialists, okay? It's all coming from the same source, okay? And all these clubs, like they have, I don't know, a new world order, okay? World economic forum or whatever, they have to have some signs, they have to say, this is our people, we are all one, etc, on board, they say.

Because they also understand that this is spiritual. Some of them don't understand that, okay? For example, now people like to do tattoos, okay? With all these dragons and all this hellish stuff, okay? All kinds of stuff. What are these? Basically, these are these marks, these symbols of some other spirituality. 

Is it God's spirituality? Is it the Holy Spirit? Well, no, okay? Even if it's a sign of cross or whatever, it would be in some hellish design, okay? And this is because there are these spirits behind. So, a person all of a sudden goes and does tattoos, okay? You ask him why, he says, I don't know, I like it. Okay, well, this is not just he likes it, there is this snake which lives in his heart, in her heart, okay? He unwittingly becomes a participant of this religion of Babylon, okay? And the more, the worse, okay? Usually, it goes on, okay? So, we are concerned, well, we were not concerned about this hellish stuff, okay? We don't, we're not afraid of it. 

We need to know about it, not to fall victim of these things, because no matter whether you like it or you don't like it, okay? You know about it, you don't know about it, it is out there, okay? It is going on, and you better know about it, otherwise, you'll get into trap, okay? But again, we don't want to fall into this paranoia, okay? There is a saying that the more you look into abyss, the more you fall into that abyss, okay? So, we don't want to fall into that trap. So, having said this, I need to tell you that unless we find our way to unite with Christ, no matter if we call ourselves Christians, no matter if we're baptized or we're not baptized, we will be part of the other agenda. And now, we even have these satanist stars, the star of David, okay? This satanist star, which represents a devil, those Soviet stars, okay, that we have on the Kremlin, where they've put, instead of the crosses, now it's half and half, now they're, you know, playing those games, they don't move, they have the star, because it's the same spirit behind it. 

But now they're like trying to hide themselves and say, well, we're not really those guys, but really we are. Like, snake is always winding like this. So, that star, now we even have it in some churches, brothers and sisters. 

Can you believe that? Can you imagine that? Because people will say, oh, this is representing glory of our warriors, etc, etc. But at the end of the day, we have this satanistic symbology within the Church of God. How blind you have to be to do that. 

But this is what we have, this is what the world we live in, okay? So, the things that I'm talking about, it's not some theory, okay? It's not some fiction, fairy tale, okay? Some conspiracy. This is spiritual warfare that is going on. And if you don't see it, you lose, okay? So, I hope that all of us can make this decision to exert our willpower to go and to get into the spiritual union with Christ. 

Not obedience to some ritual, not some external stuff, but the internal stuff, okay? What is behind? I read about the liturgy, this is the structure, but what is behind it? I want to penetrate into that mystery that is behind it. But we don't even understand the basic structure, okay? We don't want to learn anything about the great and the main portal for us into the Kingdom of Heaven. We don't care, okay? We don't know anything and we don't want to know anything. 

And we don't open the books, we don't read the Bible, we don't read the Gospel. What kind of Christians are we? So, brothers and sisters, let us be watchful, be vigilant, be on guard. Unless we are, this snake will creep in, okay? Like the snakes, they come in and they don't care about anything. 

They come and they bite you and they kill you. And that's what's happening with most people. You think it's just, I don't know, psychology? It's just some generational thing? No, it's the devil who got into the hearts of man and each and every one of us. 

He's been there, okay? We need to acknowledge that, that it's been in your heart, in my heart, and maybe it still has some place there, okay? That he can come anytime, whenever he wants. So, let us make this firm decision, brothers and sisters, to be with the Lord, to be loyal to Him till the end, okay? To choose without any compromise the Kingdom of God, His truth, His righteousness, His holiness, and drop away anything that is preventing us from being with our Lord, from growing in virtue, from growing in wisdom, from growing in understanding of the true mystery, the mystery of piety, which Apostle Paul has preached. And that will help us know what things matter, what don't matter, what are fake, what are to be watchful, and to help others also around us avoid some grave, grave mistakes, and not to become victim, because we see that the blindness comes upon people, and you'll see it more and more. 

The more spiritual you become, the more you see this blindness around you. May the Lord keep us away from this spirit of delusion, and keep us in His grace, in His blessing, and help us grow in virtue, and do great testimony of His love, humbleness, and salvation to this world, I mean. God bless.