Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Exaltation of the Holy Cross! On September 27th the Church celebrates this feast, this event which happened in the 4th century when Saint Helen, mother of Saint Emperor Constantine, she went to the Holy Land and she discovered the Holy Cross of the Lord, the Tomb of the Lord, and many other places related to the passions and death of our Lord Jesus Christ. And today I won't say much about the history of the feast and regarding the significance of this feast I just want to say that it is only after that event that we have the crosses everywhere, okay, on the churches we wear them, we have them inside the Church, we have them everywhere, okay. Prior to that, of course, the Church knew about the cross and the sign of the cross, maybe it was done in a different fashion, okay, but it was done from the early times of the Apostles. 

The Apostles themselves, they've done this sign of the cross. However, it was not omnipresent, as you find now everywhere in any Christian Church. However, what matters even more is the understanding of the cross for us, okay. 

We will see that the key to salvation and to the Kingdom of God is the Holy Cross, and that all the Pharisees, they do not have that key, okay. And even us Orthodox Christians, we may be unable to use it, okay, to know many things theoretically, but not put it into the daily life, and thus we are deprived of the Kingdom of God, and we do not become the witnesses of the Lord, and we do not know the will of God, okay, because all of that is revealing itself to us, and becoming part of our life, part of our inner self, only when we discover the cross, okay. This is why the Lord said, whoever wants to be my disciple, take up his cross and follow me, okay, and whoever doesn't do that, he doesn't follow the narrow path and the path of salvation, okay. 

And today I want to share with you about what does it mean practically, okay. We hear about it so often, but what does it take, what does it mean, and how do we live like that, okay. Our parish here, by the way, is the parish of the exaltation of the Holy Cross, the parish in Taipei. 

So, for us, this is not just the feast of our parish, it is also, there is a special connection between the cross and the way of the cross and our parish, okay. And I hope one day I can share with you more about this connection, but it's very deep, believe me, believe me, okay. So, today I want to first begin with making a note about this topic, which I often touch upon, okay, this topic of Babylon and this symbolism I've talked about last time, okay, of the this religion of Antichrist or the Canaanite religion or the synagogue of the Satan, if you want, and all this conspiracy of devil against the mankind, into which most people are drawn into, okay, and that we notice ourselves, okay. 

So, now the problem with the people who see it and who talk about it is that they don't see the true alternative and they do not see the kingdom of God. For them, it becomes just this hellish plan which is unfolding and which they need to talk about, okay, and this is why very often it leads to some paranoia or to some weird stuff, okay, some fear, okay, and some pessimism and other stuff, okay. It's not healthy very often, but it has good intention. 

So, the problem is that when people are in the apostasy themselves, when they discover that there is this evil conspiracy going on, they become obsessed about it, and this is the only thing that they would be interested in and talk about, and this is why these people who research masonry or who do other kinds of stuff, okay, related to that, very often do not speak about the truth and the salvation and the kingdom of God, because for them, it's not as visible, it's not as evident, okay, and for us, the agenda is the agenda of the kingdom of God, okay. So, whenever we will see those things, and we should know, okay, what kind of world we live in, okay, not to be interrupted in it, but for us, that is not the topic which is really possessing our heart, because the topic that is possessing our heart is the topic of the kingdom of God, and it's unveiling in this world and our part in this kingdom and in the ministry of the Lord and whatever he wants us to do here. So, today, we will talk about the key to this kingdom, so that it's not just some abstract teaching or some words written in the Bible that you just quote and you memorize and that's it, that it becomes part of yourself, okay. 

So, the thing is that no matter, be it this conspiracy thing, or be it anything else, if there is something that is between, in between you and God, and this something could be what? It could be something that people consider good, your career, your hobbies, your, I don't know, something else, talents, you write a book, you do some, okay, studies, you compose music, whatever you do, whatever you're interested in, it could become something in place. So, in this context of this interest in all this Babylon and all this Canaanite stuff, that can become something that is between you and God, because this is what your thoughts are all about, your research is all about that, okay. Or, I don't know, you like something else, you like horses, you like coins, you like whatever, but that becomes something which is, and you think that, okay, yes, of course, I'm Christian, yes, I pray to God, I want to be with God, but this is what I do all the time, this is what attracts my harm, okay. 

Or, it could be just your family, okay, go here, go there, party, picnic, this and that. It is something which is in between you and Christ, and it should be only the cross which is in between you and Christ. What does that mean? Let us talk about it more. 

The cross is related to the passing, okay, it's always about overcoming something, going through, okay, overcoming, breaking through, passing, okay, the Passover. It's about the birth into new life, and it happens every day, okay. So, if we bear the cross of the Lord, every day would be some kind of breakthrough, would be some rejuvenation that takes place. 

It's not something just happens once, and that's it. And the goal is that whatever we do, okay, whatever we do becomes related directly to the cross of the Lord. And this is very interesting, brothers and sisters, we here have research into the Holy Scripture and into the Holy Fathers, and now we are doing the Hebrews, okay, the Apostle Paul to Hebrews, and everywhere in the Scripture we discover that the life of a Christian, every part of it, okay, every breath, every thought, every word, everything is mystically related to the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. 

Everything about you, what you do, how you dress, how you look, how you speak, how you think, okay, everything. Apostle Paul says, first letter to Corinthians 10 31, whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. What is this, a nice rhetoric? Oh, this is reality, this is reality. 

And you'll ask me, how do I do, how do I eat to the glory of God, okay, practically? Do I need to learn what, chopsticks or what? What do I do to glorify God when I eat? Okay, I'll tell you, I'll tell you what you need to do, okay, in a second. The outcome of this, the outcome of us living in the cross, living with the cross, comes to the power of the Lord working through us. And Apostle Paul also says in the Philippians that I can do everything with the Christ who is strengthening me, who gives me strength.

That's Philippians 4 13. You become omnipotent, okay, you become immortal, you draw life from the cross on a daily basis if you submit yourself to the cross. So now what practically does that mean? What practically does it mean to bear your cross? The Lord himself told us that his yoke is light, that yoke, it's there, it has to be there, okay, for most people it's not.

But as long as we want to be Christians, we have to feel that yoke, which is light, but it's there, okay. And the prophet David in the Psalms, that's Psalm 32 4, he says that thy mighty hand is upon me day and night. Okay, the hand of the Lord is upon him, it's heavy, the heavy hand is upon me, okay. 

And there is also understanding that this heavy hand is not just laying there, it's hitting you all the time, okay. The Holy Father has explained to us that it's not just, okay, lying on you. Why? Why can we just be freed? Everything is fine, hallelujah, no yoke, okay, no sorrow, no nothing. 

Well, this is because if we want to be with Christ, we need to, we need to be like him in everything, including, first and foremost, the suffering that he has gone through when he went up on the Golgotha, okay. It's not that his suffering is not enough, no, but if you want to partake of the fruits of his suffering, you need to accept this cross yourself, you need to feel what it's like, and what the outcome of sin is, and if you don't, the sin will not be forgiven, you will not be cured, okay. Without his sacrifice, our suffering would not save us, no matter how terrible it is. 

But with his sacrifice, and with through his suffering, we are called to follow in his footsteps, and thereby to receive the fruits of his sacrifice, overthrowing death and receiving the life everlasting, now, not in the future, not when we die, okay. So, this cross could be in many different shapes and forms, okay, but it's not just something that you cannot avoid, okay, it is something that you normally could avoid. Usually, it is something that you can take up and carry, okay, and you can throw it away, okay. 

So, when people say, okay, I'm handicapped, or I don't have children, or something else, this is my cross. Well, not really, okay, it may be just something that can help you, okay, but the true cross is something that you freely choose, okay, and it's not that complicated, brothers and sisters, it's not that complicated. Very often, the choice is out there, waiting for us, but we don't want it, so we are always looking for some other options, and if the Lord would come, He would tell you, this is it, you say, oh, oh, oh, I didn't know, I needed to be faithful to the spouse whom I don't like, who I want to get rid of, I need to be faithful, oh, that was the option, that was the cross. 

Or someone else will hear that you had to drop that job, yes, it's high paid, but it's sinful, you had to go and find some very basic, simple job, I don't know, wash dishes, clean the floor, something like that, but it would not have a sin, and that option was always there, and people were offering you that job, but you always said, no, no, I want something else, I want something better, I want to self-realize myself, I want to prove something to someone, I want to make more money, I want to afford this, not for me, for my family, and etc. And we have all kinds of choices that we make on a daily basis, and we always need to find the choice where there is a cross, and most likely that will be the choice which is most straightforward and most undesirable. It will be something that our inner self, our selfish, our carnal self would not want, and we say, oh, yes, yes, but later, okay, I know that, yes, I need to do it, but later.

Oh, you need my help to care for your child? Yes, I know I can do it, I will help you, but maybe not today, because today someone else can do that for you, and one day I will. Okay, and we always avoid, we always avoid anything that is related to cross, and then we ask, what is the will of God? Is it that I go to Harvard, or I go and travel to some countries, or, okay, and we think, oh, what is the goal? I immigrate to some nice country, or I buy some nice stuff. What is the will of God? The will of God is that you drop all that stuff, and that you go pray and help people next to you. 

Well, yes, yes, I know, I know, but let me dream about something else. This is more important, and that is how we pass by the true will of God. We drop the cross, and we choose mammon, and we can do that even thinking that we're super religious, and all the sects are like that, brothers and sisters, okay. 

The Catholics, they have pope who guarantees their salvation, pretty much, okay, because he's got that depository of extra merits of saints, and he can give you some anytime, especially if you go there and pay for the pilgrimage, or for whatever, and there is truth everywhere, as they say now. They are super humanists now, so no worries, or Protestants who said completely no need for any cross. Already it happened 2,000 years ago, so now what cross, what cross do you need to take? Hallelujah, you are saved. 

Everything is fine, just happy, just chant some songs, and that's it. No need to fast, no need to fight with your passions, okay, no need to sacrifice yourself. Enjoy your life, make more money, glorify God by your business, just don't forget to pay to the church that is telling you these things, okay. 

So, brothers and sisters, I really hope that all of us can feel what that means. What does that mean to take up your cross and follow me? What does that mean that through cross as a key, as the bridge to the kingdom of God, we make that kingdom come down upon us and be in our hearts? I hope that every one of you can feel that, can know that for sure, and not to be misled by some sect or by something else. And this is what the Christianity is all about, okay. 

If we are not children of the kingdom of God, if we don't know what is his will, we don't take up our cross and follow him. We are not Christians, we are fake Christians. It's all about some role-playing or some fantasies.

Whenever we have this key, this anchor of salvation, all the evil is gonna break, okay. Both inside us, all the passions, all the sins that we still have, all the habits, addictions, etc. And everything new outside, coming from outside, all kinds of temptations, delusions, seduction, everything else is going to be broken, broken into pieces, vanished.

As long as we are in Christ, as long as we found this access through cross, we will feel how the life is springing from Christ. We will feel joy. So, the cross is not just about sorrow and pain and suffering. 

And there is also this mystery, okay, this mystery, why it's painful, okay. There is some pain, some hardship associated with us being Christians. Well, this is related to the meaning of cross, because it is on the cross that the Lord has received the outcome of sin of all humanity. 

So, the cross is related to sin. There is some internal relationship. Those words of David, King David, were related to his sin. 

He felt this chastisement of the Lord, or this educative hits of the Lord because of his sin. He always repented his sins, but he saw that there are consequences that he still is carrying, okay, both in the tribulations that he has to suffer, and in the internal, his conscience is always making him, you know, suffer, okay, because of what he's done. And he felt that this is coming from the Lord, and this is outcome of the sin, okay. 

So, cross, brothers and sisters, is related to sin. It is the cure against sin and from sin. It is liberating us from our sin, but as most of the medicine, it is bitter, okay, and we need to love this bitterness, okay. 

May the Lord help us. It's, okay, again, it's not that the salvation of the Lord, the redemption of the Lord is not enough. It is enough, but it is through us carrying the cross that the fruits of this salvation can come upon us, okay. 

I repeat it one more time. It's not because we suffer, that's why we make up for our sins. No, it's not how it goes, okay. 

We ourselves cannot save us. We cannot get salvation just by suffering something, but it is our participation, and it could be even not for sin, okay. It could be even like the Lord himself, he suffered not because of his own sin, sin of others. 

So, a righteous man, a Christian, can suffer for something else, for someone else's sin and evil. That is also quite possible, okay, but this is an honor, okay, to go to walk in the footsteps of the Lord himself, and this makes us friends of the Lord. This makes us heirs of his kingdom, already here, already now, okay. 

May the Lord truly make us his people, his beloved ones, reveal to us his mystery, and give us this rock of salvation, this anchor of immortality, his cross, and his resurrection from the dead, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters. Merry exaltation of the cross.