Dear brothers and sisters, we are still celebrating the exaltation of the Holy Cross and during these holy days we think deeply about the mystery of the cross and the mystery of salvation, which is how Apostle Paul calls it the mystery of piety. And there is also the mystery of iniquity, about which we also speak quite a lot. And today I want to share with you some thoughts about this imbalance, that quite many faithful, they are into this lawlessness, this iniquity, this evil which is out there, and they don't pay attention to the faith itself. 

They don't pay to the spiritual content and to the significance of the plan of salvation. And this mystery is not something of great concern to them. Okay, so today I want to share with you some thoughts on this, because we have at least two, I know two faithful with whom I've talked about it, and both of them, they actually came to faith through, not through, but after being into conspiracy theories. 

Okay, and today when I say conspiracy, I don't say it in this secular way to say that, okay, these people are crazy, they believe in reptiloids and lizard people or humanoids or something else. Okay, because there is evidently a conspiracy of the devil against humanity, against God. Okay, and there are many people who are tools of this conspiracy and who are implementing this conspiracy. 

And I've talked about it in my previous two videos and even before. So, they were into some kind of conspiracies, into these theories, and they saw that how great is the evil, how deep is the darkness, and it is logical for people who are discovering this to seek for a solution and to find the only true solution in God, in faith. Okay, so I believe that this is related. 

I myself was quite into some conspiracy theories a long time ago before becoming orthodox, we can say that, before coming really to the Church. And until now, I know that these things exist and I try to keep an eye on that. Okay, however, there is a big risk of people not going beyond the superficial understanding of faith. 

Okay, and this is why quite many orthodox, they are into conspiracy and in an unhealthy way. Okay, and actually, as a matter of fact, if you find conspiracies in orthodox countries, the countries are secular, but most of the conspiracies, they would be orthodox. Not all, but many. 

Okay, it is quite natural, okay, because the general public, well, they don't dig deeper. Okay, whatever they hear in the news, okay, they believe that. Okay, they don't see those things. 

Okay, they are more naive and they cannot grasp much of that, even though there are people who are conspiracists, who are not, who are against Christianity, actually. Okay, so there is no one-to-one relationship. Okay, and what I want to share with you today relates to this imbalance, okay, because once we see that there is evil out there and that this evil is attempting to enslave all the world, okay, and we discover things like, okay, the two world wars were planned and organized by some people who wanted to do that, who wanted to change financial system in the world, who wanted to bring about new world order, etc. 

Okay, and what's happening now is also not just what the news are saying, but there is a bigger agenda behind it, and this agenda is centuries old, okay, to bring that totalitarian regime, okay, which will have all these slaves who are happy together, etc. Okay, we can talk a lot about it, and I do talk about it in some of my videos, which are dedicated to this topic of apocalypse and how it's related to the days we're living in. Okay, but today I want to indicate the necessity of discovering the agenda, the agenda of the world, okay, because this agenda is much more important and is much more significant than all of those things. 

And the reason why we are more attracted by those, you know, talking about the evil, darkness, okay, digital IDs and etc., all this brainwashing, is because it's evil and we are fallen people. So for us it is more attractive, even though we hate it, we don't like it, but for us it's more easy to understand, because we also have fallen minds, and we say, oh, how come they want to enslave us? How come they think that we are sheeple, that we are stupid? This is not right, so we need to be against it, and we need to tell everybody about this, etc., and we see our mission in fighting with this thing through, I don't know, media, through whatever means, not rejecting, not accepting those IDs or this thing, you know, not willing to, you know, conform to this world, to its new regime, etc., we're against totalitarianism, etc., okay, and they make this their mission. Brothers and sisters, I can tell you that if our soul, our heart is possessed by those things, we will drift away from God, we will not have peace of the Lord in our hearts, we will fail, when all these things will come, we will fail, okay, because we will not have a spiritual anchor and union with the Living God, which alone can save us from enslavement into this anti-Christian world which is coming. 

So, the goal is to love Christ, to learn to live in Christ, with Christ, to have the peace of the Lord in our hearts all the time, giving us joy and giving us tranquility in any circumstance, and giving us wisdom to make right decisions in those difficult situations which are coming, when we may have to give up our job or move or do something, okay, unless we are spiritual and we can ask directly for help, for advice from our Lord, we will fail, brothers and sisters. And, of course, people who focus only on that, they fall into depression, despondency, even maybe paranoia sometimes, into some fantasies, okay, I discovered some people, they call themselves faithful and they are possessed by some spirit, okay, every video they make, they say, oh, you know, it's next month, it's coming, it's gonna happen, be ready, oh, they're planning something, oh, it's approaching, wow, we see the signs, just by the spirit of those videos and those topics they propagate, you can say that they are already possessed, even though they call themselves Christians, and sometimes they even bring up gospel, but 99% of what they say is all related to this world stuff, and they would be shy to even talk about anything related to faith, they're shy now when there is no risk, what's going to happen when there will be risk to their life, okay, just recently I've listened to some blogger conference, it's five or six bloggers, okay, most of them consider themselves Christian, okay, and not conformists, just express their ideas, no matter they agree, disagree, okay, they try to expose all these problems, all this agenda which is being implemented across the globe, trying to put their head around all these events which are happening in the news, okay, with this escalation of war and with these politicians switching back and forth and all the other stuff, trying to make sense of it, and they wouldn't say a word about faith, even though all of them consider themselves faithful, they will say, oh, well, it's my private thing, okay, maybe I should not tell, like, now everyone, so the only problems, the only issues they bring are of this world, brothers and sisters, we should not live by the things of this world, this is why sometimes when I make some videos on those topics, I think twice if I really want to say that, okay, sometimes I need just to wake people up, not to be dreaming, not to be daydreaming, but be vigilant, because Christ himself, he spoke about these things, okay, he himself warned the disciples to beware of people, to know what's going to happen before the end of the world, okay, but that was not the purpose, the content of his teaching, brothers and sisters. We see the apostles, Apostle Paul is saying about those things, but that's only a few verses in the whole fourteen epistles which he wrote, and some people just read those verses, they don't care about anything else, or the Apocalypse, people don't read the Gospel of John, they don't read the epistles of Apostle John, and even in the Book of Apocalypse they usually just read chapter 13, and everything else where he tells about the new heavens and new earth and many other things, they don't care, they don't open those pages, they don't care, they just care about Armageddon, Antichrist, the beast, the what, 666, etc. 

This is sick, brothers and sisters, this is sick. People are completely fruitless Christians, Orthodox Christians, both in terms of spiritual life, in terms of ministry, in every respect. The Lord gave us something else. 

He said that those things, those persecutions, they will come, and you Christians, the Christians, have to do this, this, this, and beware of this, this, this. But if you're not Christians, forget about it, okay? You will be cattle, okay? You will be blinded. I'm not talking to you right now, he said. 

And what does it mean to be a Christian? It's to follow me, to take up your cross, to unite with me in your heart, to seek first and foremost the kingdom of God and its truth, and everything else will be given to you. Matthew chapter 6, verse 33. So, he wants us to witness this, to live this in everything, this union with Christ, this new covenant that he brought in the sacrament, in the Holy Eucharist, in the divine liturgy, uniting with him in prayer, in ministry, in the research of the Word of God, in reading the Bible, the Gospel all the time, the Holy Fathers, okay? In becoming saints, in having holy life, in spiritual life, in fasting, in asceticism. 

He wants us to be his children in the worldview. For us, if we are members of the mystery of piety, everything is about this mystery, brothers and sisters. And we know that it's much more powerful than anything else, than all the masons in the world, the only bankers with all the gold reserves they have. 

It's all nothing if we are with Christ. All the weapons, all the alliances, okay? It's all nothing if we are with Christ. The most they can do is to put us in gas cameras and kill us with drones or something else. 

But so what? Are we afraid of that? We must be afraid only of falling away from Christ. This must be our goal. So, I'm now not telling you just pretend that there is nothing, there is no agenda, just be asleep, enjoy your life, eat, drink, go to church, read the Bible and relax. 

It's not what I'm telling you. The Lord says be vigilant, be aware, be cautious of people because they will take you to the pedagogues and to those judgment places, trials, and they will condemn you, okay? And they will spit and the world will hate you, etc. Be aware of that. 

But that was not the main message. If you don't love him, if you don't follow him, if you don't unite with him, everything is useless, it's, okay, it's meaningless. So, if you're telling others about this dangers, okay, it's not the point to just tell them, you see, this is violating human rights, this is against constitution, this is dictatorship, this is this, this is that. 

Are we preachers of democracy or something else, nationalism, some other philosophy, social system? We are preachers of the kingdom of God. So, for us, all those secular things, it's at the very tail of the priorities and the things which we are concerned about, brothers and sisters. So, each and every one of us, if we are with Christ, we are a great threat and danger to all those plans, I'm telling you. 

It's not by hoarding bullets in your basement or machine guns or whatever, you can protect yourselves from what is coming. No. It's by learning how to pray, how to forgive people, by penetrating into the word of God, in the gospel, okay, love people, love the Lord, live by him, witness him in everything you do, everything you think. 

This is the true threat to all these things. At the end of the day, the fight will be spiritual, it will not be physical. Of course, there will be physical things, like with this pandemic's agenda, okay? Yes, to scare everybody, to enslave everybody, to propagate fear and then to offer a solution.

Of course, he will be using tricks like that, but at the end of the day, not to receive him as savior, you will need to have another savior, the true savior in your heart, and only that can keep you away from submitting to Antichrist. And his spirit and his presence is already here. It's already here, just look around. 

You don't need to wait another hundred years for that to come. By becoming slaves of computer games, of Facebook, of, I don't know, some bloggers, we already submit ourselves to the rule, to the seal of Antichrist already, brothers and sisters. If we walk, if we live in the mood of this world, and even if we are fighting with the world government or something like that, we just make of it another god, because we say it's omnipresent, it's all evil, it's all around us, etc., etc. 

You don't see Christ. You don't see the mystery of piety unfolding itself in you, in the people who receive him, who love him, who witness him with their life, with the virtue in which they are growing. That is what Christianity, true Christianity, is all about. 

May the Lord give us the hearts, loving him, his mind. He said, I will come, I will dwell in them, and I will walk in them. This is Exodus. 

And then it was quoted in the 2nd Corinthians, that they will be my people and I will be their God. I will dwell in them and I will walk in them. If Christ is walking around, what are we afraid of? But that can be possible only if he lives in you and me. 

Then he will be himself walking around and doing the things which are right, which God wants to do, and not us with our fallen and blind mind and our earthly logic, who are trying to comprehend this satanic agenda. May the Lord give us his peace. Strengthen us in prayer, in this testimony, in the ministry, in loving him and nothing else, no one else. 

Not submitting ourselves to any harassment, any surrogate of Christianity, any substitution, but being willing and eager to go through ascetic life, the life of self-sacrifice, mortifying the old man and living in Christ and blooming like the stuff of our own. It was cut and then it bloomed. Like the Lord, he was killed and he resurrected and brought life. 

And we have to kill our old man, old self, and then we will bloom in Christ. May this be so upon each and every one of you. Amen. 

God bless. Merry exaltation of the cross.