Dear brothers and sisters, in my last video I've talked about the mystery of piety and the mystery of iniquity, and I've indicated that it is much more important to think, to focus, to talk about the mystery of piety, even though so few people talk about it, including Christians, including people who seem to know what is going on in this world, in terms of deception. And still, most people would be focused on the evil, okay, would be focused on what is more visible. As a matter of fact, the mystery of iniquity is drawing in itself majority, and we see that so few people follow Christ, let alone have holy lives, but just at least follow him, or at least believe that he is the Savior. 

It's not majority, okay. Today I want to talk about the mystery of piety, and to go into the mystery, to share with you about the mystery of this union of true God with man, and why so few people find this union, and what happens next, while we, after, when we discover that this is the truth, and this is the path on the way, okay. So, we see that the Lord created this world for man, and the whole world is the temple of God, okay. 

The sky is the ceiling of this temple, and the sky also represents the veil. It's both inviting us to think about the spiritual, and it is also acting as a view behind which the spiritual world really is. So, we don't see with our carnal eye the spiritual world, and the heavens are sometimes called the floor of the angels. 

The angels are on the other side of this floor, okay. We don't see them, but we intuitively feel that it is somewhere there. So, this is why we're talking about the kingdom of heaven, our heavenly father, and also we are calling the Christians the people of the heavens. 

Okay, and today we will talk about this, about the mystery of the church, and what does it mean to really be in the church, and how do we say if someone is truly a Christian or not, okay, because we see that some people are baptized, okay. I'm now not talking about heretics, okay. This is another question. 

People who believe in Christ, but what kind of Christ? They don't really understand who is Christ, and they make all kinds of crazy pictures of Christ, etc., but this is another question, okay. Sometimes I touch upon it, but not in this video, okay. This video will be focused mainly on the people who are somehow related or part of the true church of Christ, okay. 

So, for example, people are baptized, they have a baptismal certificate, but they never come to church, okay, or they come only for their marriage, let's say. Are they part of the body of Christ? Are they in the church? How about the people who come once a month, or on Christmas and Easter? Are they part of the church? Should we allow them to receive the Holy Communion when they come, or we should say that, okay, you are not yet enlightened, and you don't know who Christ is, and that's why you will find other excuses not to come to church every Sunday, and even more often. Something else, well, mammon, let's call it that way, is more important for you. 

You serve mammon, so how come you want to come now and receive communion all of a sudden on Christmas? And also people who are in the church, okay, let's say even the priests and the bishops, they are not just in the church, they are in the altar, they are ministering these holy sacraments, and what if they sin? What if they sin? How big should be their sin for them to be eradicated from the church, okay? Are they still in the church if not banned by their bishop, let's say? They still do the service, they still do everything, but they are big sinners, or they hate Christianity, okay, and they're enemies of Christ, but they still serve inside the church, and we also have that, not much, but we also have that. How about them? Well, as you can see, the question is not that simple. The question is not that simple. 

How about catechumens, okay? Why do we pray for them? If a catechumen dies, we pray for him as a member of the church, so is it necessary for him to receive baptism if he is already a member of the church? Okay, there are many questions, and how can we accept some of the heretics and schismatics through chrismation and not through baptism, okay? There are many questions that we have, and unless we try to answer it, well, first we won't be able to do a sound testimony of our faith telling people where do we invite them when we ask them, invite them to become Christians, Orthodox, and also we ourselves, we are not really understanding what is going on. Okay, how about the Christian Orthodox who is coming to the service every Sunday, or every service, let's say, but doesn't understand much, okay, just likes the feeling, and he knows that, okay, I need to receive communion, but I don't really understand what's going on, all those words, okay, all those rituals and processions, etc. How about him? Is he a member of the church, really? Okay, how much does he have to understand to fully participate, or is it about not understanding, is it about some internal spiritual intuition that he should have to tune in? Okay, so there are many, many questions, brothers and sisters, and today I want to share with you something related to this mystery, to this mystery, and unless we understand it, we will be risking making a big error, okay? And also, if we penetrate into this mystery, we may also understand better why sometimes people in the church are blinded by some things, by things like ethno-philatism, all those small churches, especially those heretic churches, I don't know, these small ones, Ethiopia, Coptic, Armenia, they became nationalistic, and not only them, we also have these small other churches, very nationalistic, Bulgaria, Romania, okay, many. 

Why? And if they become like that, if this nation, culture, etc, is so important for them, are they still Christians? Can we be sure that they are Christians, okay? Or if they promote war because they believe in some propaganda, how is that? How is that possible, okay? If Christ himself is teaching the truth, and they go to church and receive the Holy Communion, how come they become victims of this propaganda? Okay, many questions, many questions. So today what I am going to talk about is not some abstract theology, brothers and sisters, it is something very relevant to us in our life, to understand what is going on in the church, with also all these quarrels between churches, and also it will help us to understand more the spiritual life, our individual, our prayer, our own salvation, okay, this path to salvation. What I want to talk today about is the image of the temple, okay, the role of the temple of God.

Okay, we first have this tabernacle from times of Moses, then we had Solomon building the first temple, and, okay, until now, okay, now we have many churches, many temples. What is the role of the temple, and how does the temple signify the church? Well, you see, before Moses, the patriarchs, Abraham, Jacob, Isaac, and the holy patriarchs, Noah, they all worshipped, they did not have a temple. How could they do without a temple? They just built altars, and they've made sacrifices on those altars anywhere, well, not anywhere, but wherever they were enlightened to do that, okay, and at some point there was a need for a tabernacle, and the commandment to make a tabernacle was given by God, so it was not something that just man invented, and which was bad, of course not, okay, however, what is this related to? It's related to the whole nation, the whole people, it was not really a nation, but a big, big number of people, tens of thousands at least, maybe hundreds of thousands, who had to enter into the covenant with God. 

So, when it's a matter of one person or his family, this is one thing, okay, you may not need a temple, I mean, in those days, but when we are talking about a huge number of people, big number of people, and you want them to all be in this covenant, to all be pious, to all be the people of God, and represent him here on earth, you need a tabernacle. You need some place, which is, everybody knows, okay, that there is the place we meet with God, okay, because otherwise you become pagan like every other nation, every other nation, very quickly, okay, and this process was developing, okay, and the next stage that happened was the temple, from tabernacle to the temple, okay, the big difference was the tabernacle could be put anywhere, okay, and the people were ruled by these judges, they were basically prophets, and it was guidance by God, who brought them to different places, and in different circumstances, and they were open in their obedience to the Lord, and not to men, okay. So, the care of God, of course, reflected most of the time their own piety, their own willingness, their own search for God, for his truth, okay, but they said, well, it's not guaranteed, okay, we want something more solid, so we want two things, we want King, and then they wanted the temple, and it started by a coincidence that these two things were very close. 

So, first, there was this demand for King, who could rule, who could have this dynastic rulership, and this government, which would run things, etc., like other nations, they said, other nations, they have it, all those big empires, we want to be like them, we want to accumulate, to have, in this world, more stability, okay, and once they got this stability, well, stability, they had King David, also great prophet, a great saint, okay, but it was now a new beginning, because the Lord told them that, he told prophet Samuel, that it's not that they want King, it's they don't want me, they don't want me to guide them, they don't trust me, this is a lack of trust, okay, lack of trust, so I'll give him, I'll give them, okay, I love them, I love these people, so I won't just abandon them, if they want King, let them have King, and I will help them with the King, if they have a King, I'll still be helping them, but relationship is a little bit loose already. So, later, they thought, we need some more concrete, it's a tabernacle, you bring it here, you bring that, we want something big, solid, and nice, big temple, right here, okay, so we want a temple, we want to be clear, God is here, it's not there, it's not somewhere else, it's here, I want to worship the true God, I come here, I don't go to somewhere else, okay, so it was also a lack of closeness with God, if you're close with him, you don't have to fix them to some place, okay, so the Lord told them, okay, you want temple, be, have a temple, okay, so he is very humble, they wanted in this way, okay, as long as they can come to salvation still, okay, because otherwise, they would just worship other idols, and they did, despite the temple, okay, but the temple was at least some kind of safety net for the people, okay, they've departed, but not for too long, and come back, repented, okay, so the existence of temple is a little bit distancing from God, okay, it comes from this distancing, and as a matter of fact, it can be perverted, and you can take the external things for the internal, okay, it can become an obstacle, okay, it is given as a safety, but it can become an obstacle, it's like you have a photograph of your beloved someone, okay, reminding you about this relationship, it's no problem with that, because you cannot remind yourself without the photograph as vividly, but then you make this photograph an idol, you worship this photograph, you think that, okay, it gives you luck or something else, you become superstitious, and you're a pagan, you're an idolater already, okay, so this is just an example how something that is helping you in the beginning can be abused and become something harming you, okay, so the same thing happens with the temple, okay, and of course there are people who are dreaming about the third temple, it can be restored, and they say how nice was it, there were these priests, and all this, okay, and then we don't have it now, this is crazy, this is a sectarian mindset, okay, and as a matter of fact, we have so many churches that you can go to which, okay, they are serving people as a reminder, and they are helping people revive their union with God, okay, and they have a lot of decoration and symbology to help people, okay, but if you would be more spiritual, it could be all in caves, in catacombs, without any decoration, okay, and it would be as fine as long as you can have such a strong faith that you're ready to die for Christ anytime, anywhere, and to suffer for him as long as it may need be needed, okay, so now coming back to the temple, we should actually talk about the tabernacle, because the tabernacle was given by God, was commanded in that way, to make it that way, and it's a very powerful symbology to let us penetrate to the mystery of the church, and the church can be represented by many different things, and the Lord himself has told about this in his parables, and also the prophets and church writers, okay, the big tree, okay, with branches where birds can make their nest, and with the shade there where you can hide from heat, or the this symbology of a ship which is going through waves of this sea and tempest, okay, with a wind, with the Holy Spirit blowing and moving it, okay, or the tower of Apostle Hermas in the pastor, in his book The Pastor, which was built from the stone, okay, this is another very vivid symbolism of the church, but the one which is indispensable, if we want to understand the church, indispensable is the Holy Temple, okay, because the Holy Temple is structured in the several layers, okay, we have the front yard, we have the holy, and we have the holy of the holies, three parts, and actually we have more on the outside, because we have the holy city of Jerusalem, okay, and then we have the holy land, so, for example, if you are in some other place on earth, and you want to go to the place where God is, where, okay, the main holy place of worship, you first need to go to the holy land, and if you're in the holy land, you have to go to the temple, to Jerusalem, and if you're in Jerusalem, you need to go to the temple, etc., so it's in layers, and actually in Hebrew, it's all coming up, you go up to the holy land, even though if you live in Himalayas, no, you go up, you ascend to the holy land, and then you ascend to Jerusalem, even if you're in the mountains, but still you ascend to Jerusalem, and in Jerusalem, you ascend to the temple, so it all tells us that it's all symbolic of our ascension to the heavens, to the Lord, okay, but what it also tells us is that the church is also structured in that way, it's not just organization, like people think, that you are either in, you have membership, or you don't have membership, okay, just as simple as that, it's not a religion, in the sense that, okay, you believe, and you do some rituals, okay, then you're part of this religion, you're practicing this religion, okay, you're part of this religion, I don't know, the church is a mystery, okay, Christ is a mystery, kingdom of heaven is a mystery, and it is present here in this world, but in a mysterious way. So, sisters, let us first consider the three-part structure of the church, of the tabernacle, first.

In the outer front court, we have the people and the priests, and they make sacrifices, there are whole burnt sacrifices, they have the washing pond, they have many rituals going on there, okay, and then only priests are allowed to go into the holy, and do the sensing, and with the bread offerings also, and the menorah, this light stand, and they do, already it's much more holy, this whole liturgy within the tab, the holy, okay, and then there is the holy of the holes, and in the holy of the holes, only the high priest, only once a year, can go in, and with blood, he has to go there every day twice, in the morning, in the evening, to do a sacrifice, we read about it in the Exodus, only him, only him, only to do incensing, no sacrifices, no breads, no nothing else, and only once a year with blood, which symbolizes that the Lord only once entered for us into the heavens as a sacrificed lamb of God, okay, he's done the sacrifice once and for all. What does this tell us, brothers and sisters? Us as full members of the church, let's put it this way, what do I mean by that? People who love Christ, people who come to church all the services, okay, at least Sundays, okay, Saturday night, Sunday, people who try to bring fruits in their life through their ministry, through their prayers, through the virtues, okay, through cutting with sin, okay, the Christian in the full sense, these are the priests, okay, these are represented by the priests in the Old Testament, this is why Apostle Paul tells us that we are the divine priesthood, and not only the priests, okay, like me, but all the Orthodox Christians are priests, okay, in that sense, so all of us go into the holy, okay, but all of us are heavenly, we belong to heavens already, however, even the heavenly needs to be needs to be cleansed through repentance and holy communion, through holy life, okay, we're cleansed by Christ himself, by his sacrifice, but we can either fail, and first we go out into the front courtyard, and if we fail persistently or seriously, we go out, we are dropped out from the temple, from Jerusalem, from the holy land, we maybe are gone to the realm of devil himself, to the Babylon already, to this herald of Babylon, and the synagogue of Satan, okay, we can go as far as there, and it can happen in an instant, okay, so this is a risk for anyone, including priests, including monks, so physically they can still be in the church, but spiritually they are already far, far away, and also, if we are faithful, we have something else to understand, we have to understand that it's not yet done thing, it's all finished, okay, I am baptized, I live in the church, I partake of the holy community, everything is fine, I know everything about faith, I do everything that I'm supposed to do, and I'm good, no brothers and sisters, because there is also holy of the holies, where priests could not go anytime, so even for us who are full members, and in standing, let's put it that way, bring fruits, we are still, there is room to grow, okay, we can always see in front of us the holy of the holies, and we are willing to penetrate into the holy of the holies, and there is this high priest who is connecting us with it, who is Christ himself, okay, and this is the path for us, for divine life, okay, to be willing always for more. Apostle Paul says, you need to be eager about greater gifts, and I will show you a path which is even better.

We need to be eager, we need to be asking the Lord for the spiritual gifts, and those gifts are not only in knowledge, enlightenment, visions, I don't know, prophecies maybe, but it's also in the powers which will work in us, like in the apostles, we are wondering how come they would pray and people get healed, how come they are passing by someone who is dead and he comes back to life, etc, etc, and the Lord will give us these great powers whenever we are with him, it will be from him, okay, and there is nothing surprising in that, okay, so there is always room to grow, okay, we always can deepen our relationship, make it more vivid, me and Christ, okay, his guidance, him testing me in different situations, giving me revelations, protecting me, or beating me for something, all kinds of situations, so let us, brothers and sisters, be firm on this path, okay, now let's be humble, because sometimes in the church that we have now, we also have this three-part structure, but because we are now in the spiritual church, this is very relative, somebody can be in the altar, but really be further away than a catechumen who is praying there, because catechumen is pure in heart and has deep repentance and strong prayer, while a priest or a bishop may be already an enemy of Christ or a defiled sinner whose soul and heart is in hell already. So, brothers and sisters, today this is what I wanted to share with you, this is some reality that not many people are talking about, there is a lot of misunderstanding about what is a church, and I think these things should concern us much more than the mystery of the evil of this Babylon, I mean, may the Lord strengthen us in truth and give us this blessed entrance and inheritance of his kingdom, okay, inheritance, we need to inherit it, inherit, we are the heirs, because somebody will not inherit it, okay, and if we fall off, we will not inherit it. Please think about this, brothers and sisters, I mean, God bless.