Dear brothers and sisters, what is the purpose of the book of Revelation telling to Christians in all different ages about the things which will happen before the end of the world and the Lord's second coming and what will happen later? What is the purpose of that if most of these people are going to die before that, let's say in the 5th century or in the 17th century, someone who would be living there, why would he need to read all these things? Because now many people say, well, why speak about Antichrist and all these things? It's not going to come tomorrow, okay? Not in our lifetime, most likely. And even if it's going to happen in our lifetime, well, wait till that happens, wait until he comes and he is putting his mark of the beast on all the people, etc. Why talk about it now? There are more important things. 

Well, brothers and sisters, it's very important for us to understand where we are at, to understand the whole view of this salvation history from the time of creation of this world, then creation of Adam and Eve, you know, the whole Old Testament time. What did the first coming of Christ meant and how is it related to his second coming? Okay, and before that second coming, there will be this coming of Antichrist. How are all these things created? Are we just destined to some tragedy, to some end of the world as they portray in those movies? Or there is some other important, deeper, authentic spiritual meaning behind all these things? For example, Saint Sava of Serbia, he said that as the creation of the world was a gift of God, it was something good, in the same way, the end of this world will also be good, unlike all the people think that it's going to be a tragedy, it's a failure, etc. 

Well, for people who don't choose the cross, who don't know God, yes, it may well be, because it would be similar to Golgotha. Okay, just think about Golgotha when the Lord was coming up, bearing his cross to be crucified, he was betrayed. For the Christians and for everyone who chooses Christ, the end times will be Golgotha, but it won't be tragedy. 

It is tragedy for people who don't know Christ, but for people who love him, this will be a great exam, test. Yes, it will be sorrowful, but it will lead to the victory and the coming of the new age, not this new age, but the eternal age of God. So, today I want to tell you something of great importance, which I've maybe touched upon in the past, but I haven't spoken about it so clearly. 

And today I'm going to use the Holy Scripture and St. Fortius, who's explained to us that the coming of the Lord, be it at his first coming or the second coming, is not something that just happens in time once, but it's something that is gradually taking place. And the same goes for Antichrist. And he's basing this understanding on the epistle of Hebrews, Apostle Paul, chapter 10, verse 5, where the apostle says, consequently, when Christ, while coming into the world, said, sacrifices and offerings thou has not desired, but a body has thou prepared for me. 

Well, these words come from Psalm, actually. Okay. So, the saint is explaining, St. Fortius, he's explaining that in the Old Testament, the Lord was coming. 

He was coming because these words spoken by prophet David, well, they were spoken by the Lord himself through prophet David. One thousand years before his birth, these words were spoken of the Lord who is coming, who was coming already thousand years before incarnation. Because also, brothers and sisters, now we're approaching Christmas. 

So, this topic that today I chose is related to that. Are we ready to embrace the Lord's first coming and to understand what his second coming is all about? Okay. So, coming back to this passage from Hebrews, you see, he says that the sacrifices and offerings I have not desired. 

So, the saint, St. Fortius, he's explaining to us that this Old Testament rules, including offerings, the temple, the circumcision, okay, and many other precepts of the Old Testament. They were something that was not really desired by God. It was given for a time as a preparation to prepare people for something authentic, something real, while those things were just shadows, nothing more but shadows. 

And as this time of Christ's coming approached, these shadows were less and less relevant, less and less relevant. Something else became more important. And this is what happened. 

He came and he totally abolished all those sacraments, because now he's done the sacrament which doesn't need to be repeated anymore. And whatever is happening now during the Divine Liturgy in the Eucharist is participation in that very sacrament. It's not a new sacrament, new sacrifice. 

No. It's participation in that sacrifice of Christ. Okay. 

But this is another topic. So, coming back to his gradual coming, brothers and sisters, the Old Testament and the New Testament is not something that is, okay, has an age, or, okay, in the past it was all like this, now it's all like this. No. 

The Old Testament was gradually approaching its end, its accomplishment. And the Lord's coming was the fulfillment of it, completion of it. And now the New Testament began. 

And the end of this world will be the completion of this project which was begun by Christ. So, now we can make a comparison of the coming of someone, you or me, to God. First, we have some sense, some idea that He is somewhere out there. 

And we begin searching Him here and there, now and then. Then we become catechumens. Okay. 

We know exactly what we want and we prepare for this baptism. Then we are baptized and now we live in Christ, with Christ. We receive the body of Christ and it's a new life of grace for us. 

But all that process that happened, it was a gradual establishment of our relationship with God. Well, at least this is how it's supposed to be. In practice, you have different situations. 

Well, this is how it's supposed to be. So, this is just an analogy of how that happened with the whole of humanity. Both the Jews and the pagans, they were gradually being prepared for the Lord's coming. 

So, now we can see that the whole history after Christ's coming, until His second coming, is this gradual process of His second coming. It's not just something that happens once and before that is just relax and wait. And the same thing is with the Antichrist.

And this is something that we really need to understand. To avoid all kinds of paranoia. Okay. 

And also to be vigilant and to know what to expect and what are these things that are going on in the world with this taking away of freedoms of people and with all the wars and all the sicknesses and all kinds of propaganda and brainwashing. What does that all mean? The whole situation with this development of technology and globalization, etc, etc. What does that all mean? To put it in the right perspective, in the right framework, we need to understand that the Lord's coming has to bring all the people through enough tests and temptation to really receive their birth into this new age to come. 

Unless you pass that, you don't get into that next stage. Okay. And in the same way as most of the Jews in the time of Christ, they did not pass that. 

Even though they went to temple and they worshiped and they prayed and fasted, etc. They did not pass. They did not pass that test. 

Most of them, great majority, just a very, very few who've passed that test. The same thing happens with us, brothers and sisters, that we are being tested now by all these godless and anti-Christian, post-Christian society, this world that is trying to pull us away from Christ as much as possible. Okay. 

And to do that, eventually, there will be this Antichrist who's going to come and his spirits and his forerunners are around. They've been around for centuries, thousands of years. Okay. 

So his arrival is also something gradual, which is getting worse and worse. Okay. And it's bursting out here and there. 

We have revolutions, we have wars, we have pandemics, we have this data control, we have all kinds of things popping up. Moral degradation, mental degradation, AI, etc. Many different things. 

And actually, we can find this parallel of the coming of Antichrist in the times before Christ. What do I mean? Well, you see, before Christ's first coming, Antichrist also won. Apparently he won. 

Okay. Because all the people of Israel, except very tiny few, were persuaded that they need Antichrist. They wanted Messiah who was Antichrist.

He was not God. So those people who waited for their Messiah, they hated God. They became enemies of God. 

And that was so total that almost none, including the apostles, could understand what the true Messiah is really bringing about. And most of them, they went and crucified him. And also Antichrist won in those days because he persuaded whom? He put Herod to be a king. 

And we know how terrible Herod the king, Herod the king, so-called great, was, who slaughtered all those babies because he was afraid of Messiah coming. And he's put those people in the control of all the Judea, these Annas, Caiaphas, all those high priests. And also he's brought those empires, like the Roman Empire, which lost any kind of human side to it. 

It was already a dictatorship by those days. It's all not a coincidence. And the same thing happened in China with Qin Shi Huang and other terrible emperors. 

And the whole Han dynasty is like a precursor to globalization. It's united, the whole China. And it became mammonistic because it was all about wealth and prosperity, etc. 

in those days. And even the pagans in this Western world, like in this Euro-Middle East world, they also abandoned their pagan religions even to worship mammon. We see that the whole world was so much in darkness at the time of Christ's coming. 

And that was why? That was because Antichrist, the spirit of devil, has conquered their minds and souls, enslaved them at those times. So, similar things are going to happen now. They do happen now. 

And I think this can help us really understand better the world that we live in. To be preparing spiritually for what is coming. Okay? That we can be loyal to Christ. 

That we can be craving for his kingdom, become citizens of his kingdom. Okay? And we can see how this Antichrist is trying to trick us, to pull us in all kinds of fake agenda, be it this mainstream agenda of, I don't know, world democracy, or, I don't know, this right-wing, fascist-style agenda. Or maybe we just love some bloggers who kick paranoia about whatever. 

Okay? Or be just mammonists, or, I don't know, believe in some other stuff, nationalism, patriotism. Okay? Some fake Christianity kind of thing. Attracted by some yoga or even New Age Antichristian stuff. 

Okay? It could be anything, brothers and sisters. And within the Church, we also have all those spirits. Okay? So, unless we are grounded in spiritual life, in repentance, in the Eucharist, okay? In loving Christ with all our heart, all our mind, all our soul, all our strength, we will be drawn by one or another type of deception and slavery. 

This is what's going to happen. So, I think today's topic is especially important. I really hope that all Christians can gain this worldview and history view of the Bible, grounded in the Word of God. 

Explained to us by these holy men who are in one with God. Okay? Like, Photios. You can read about his explanation of all these things. 

Okay? And this can give you many clues into what is happening. What is happening, both within the Church and outside of the Church. Okay? May the Lord give you strength, give you wisdom. 

Don't be fooled by that secular, worldly kind of value system which says, bad things are coming, crisis is coming, disaster, depopulation, some satanists control our world, so the life is going to be tough, etc., etc. So, just find some, I don't know, dry food, some ammo, weapons, I don't know, gold, buy silver, whatever they're saying. Okay? It's either because what's happening is really bad.

Well, for us, this standard of good and bad is different than the world. The world, when you're, okay, you have full refrigerator, you have peace and tranquility and, I don't know, good job, many children, that's good. And when they're taking this away from you, it's bad. 

When there is some kind of hardship, physical material, that's bad. That's really bad. Well, for us, brothers and sisters, it's different. 

For us, bad is when I'm away from Christ, period. We have to be one with Christ. And whatever He has to, He wants to have us go through, we need to go through that, be it, I don't know, poverty, persecution. 

As long as we are with Him, we are fine. Glory to God. May the Lord strengthen our faith, give us His wisdom, His patience, His mercy and compassion for all others, because we are going to need it, brothers and sisters, to withstand what is coming, to withstand all this evil and temptations, which is coming both from inside and from this world, okay? And we are not part of this world. 

Just remember that. Our logic, our feelings, our goals, values, it's all different, fundamentally different from people around us. We need to understand it better and better every day. 

Attune ourselves by the words of God and by Christ and the prayer, divine liturgy and union with Him in the Holy Eucharist. Amen. The Eucharist is what replaced those sacrifices, etc. 

Okay, so please think deeply about this and may each and every one of you have Lord's blessing, guidance and accomplish His mission in this testimony of His Word and love. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.