Dear brothers and sisters, when the Lord was telling to his disciples about the last times, he said that when the Son of Man will come, will he find faith on earth? There will be so little of faith that it will be as though there is none. People will have life as usual, business as usual, everything is going to be dynamic. However, there will be no faith.

People will live in total apostasy. And today I want to share with you about two types of unbelief, which are so common among people who consider themselves Christians, including Orthodox Christians. And we will see that all kinds of heresies, schisms, superstition, all kinds of sins and deviations from faith in the Lord, moral or in the teaching or otherwise, any deviation from union with Christ, living union, real union with Christ is a form of unbelief, brothers and sisters. 

And all of us are in this in one way or another. And it can manifest itself in opposite ways sometimes. So today, these two types that I want to speak about, they seem to be the opposite. 

One is, let's call it Protestantism. It's when you divide divine and human. When you say that only the Bible is holy, everything else is coming from man. 

So there is nothing holy in this world. There is no holy icons. There are no priests, no sacraments, no holy water, no holy churches. 

No, it's all coming from man. No holy tradition. And only Bible is one holy thing. 

Everything else is coming from man. It's totally human. Because they don't believe that it is possible. 

They don't believe that you can receive the body of Christ, that you can eat the body and drink the blood of Christ. They don't believe in this. So Protestantism is a total unbelief, even though they're running around and saying that they believe so much, etc. 

However, it's total unbelief. It's total misunderstanding and negation of the incarnation of the divine Word. But today, this is not the main topic that I want to talk about. 

I want to talk more about the opposite of this, which we do have very often in the Church. And before I talk about it, I want to warn that when we are talking about faith, we're not talking about individual people or some moral problems that happen within a Church. So Protestants or other people, for that matter, that come and tell us that you are Orthodox. 

You see, in the villages, you have all that people who have all kinds of superstitions. They believe in keeping some holy objects that will give them protection. The more they kiss different icons, the more protection they get, etc. 

They treat some things in a very pagan way. Rituals or some sanctified objects. And we need to return back. 

If we are talking about faith, we talk about faith. We talk about teaching, we talk about spirituality, that this particular Church is teaching. And we're not talking about some people who are lazy, who are ignorant, who call themselves Orthodox, but they don't have time and willingness to open the Bible, to open the Holy Fathers, to see what the Church is teaching. 

They don't care. And that's why they are so ignorant and sleep into all kinds of paganism. But this has nothing to do with the teaching of the Church itself. 

So we happen to have a big number of people who consider themselves Orthodox, but there is just not enough ability of priests and theological schools to educate all of them. Especially when we have this great period of total atheism in those Slavic and East European countries. And before that we had this synodal period, which is also a great harm that was done to the Church. 

So after all of that, it's difficult to expect that everyone will know well and practice well their faith. So we don't judge by just looking at these people, or even by looking at the priests. Because even the priests, they have very often problems with their faith, and with the education that they get, and with the effort that they put into understanding their own faith. 

So those are also not really representatives of the faith itself. So we need to see what the Church is teaching, and what the practice is, the spiritual life and divine liturgy, what it is. So this is just a remark, that when we're talking we need not to be like those politicians, who quarrel with each other and tell each other about how you look at, etc. 

Instead of talking about things that really matter. Okay, so having said this, now let us come to this lack of faith, which is coming from over-reliance on material things. Indeed there is this risk, that people consider that some holy object, holy icon, holy relic, or some movement, some let's say ritual in the Church, that that is what matters, and that's it. 

And they don't see behind it the heavenly reality. They just get stuck on this. So for example, I have a cross, okay, the priests wear a cross like this, and if I would just treat it as just by itself holy object, and I don't really care about the cross of Christ, so when I venerate it, I venerate it as this piece of metal, regardless of what does it mean, what does it mean to receive the cross of Christ, to carry the cross of Christ, don't care about the crucifixion, and what saved us from death and sin on the cross, and the blood of Christ, which was poured for us, I don't know, I don't care, I don't think about it, I just think that this piece of metal is a holy thing, and if I carry it, this is what matters, that others can see, and it protects me, and whatever, and so on and so forth. 

I hope you understand my point, that if you're just limiting yourself to understanding these physical objects, and not the spiritual behind it, you're gone, okay, you don't have faith, this comes from lack of faith, brothers and sisters. This is another flip of the protestant version, okay, so some people would say, no, protestants, they don't believe, but we believe, we believe that this is holy, this is sacred, etc, etc, but there is this another big problem, you don't see the divine, you don't see Christ, the holy icons are there, they are there to help you find Christ, and not to lose him, but if you don't have faith, they become an obstacle, they become idols, indeed. Saint John Chrysostom, in his explanation of the epistle to Hebrews of Saint Apostle Paul, he says that now we are standing in front of the spiritual priest, Christ himself, in front of spiritual sacrifice, his body, in front of spiritual altar, the heavenly noetic altar, and our physical, fleshly eye cannot see that. 

It is only our faith that can penetrate the sky, that can go behind the veil, that veil in the temple, which is signifying this material world, behind which is the heavenly reality. We have to pierce, we have to go through this by faith as a power of our heart, not by faith as just belief, I believe ABC, some dogma, no, faith is a gift of the Lord, and this is ability of our mind, our nose, our soul, if you will, to penetrate from this visible world to the invisible, and see the union of the two in the church, not everywhere, but in the church. So now, brothers and sisters, having heard the words of John Chrysostom, let us think deeply about what does it mean, that in the sacrament, be it sacrament of the Holy Communion or Holy Baptism, there is this visible part to it, and the invisible reality, and the two are one. 

Okay, this doesn't fit into our mind, but the two are one. So it's not two altars, one is physical, whether we see in the church, and another is heavenly somewhere else. It becomes one. 

How? Don't ask me. This is the mystery, and it is only through faith that we can penetrate into this mystery. And we need faith to penetrate behind many things, not only what we see in the church, not only the rituals, the sacraments, the objects in the church, we need faith to penetrate behind many other things, because this has manifestation in many shapes and forms. 

For example, some people, they would believe in special places. Let's say, this is Vatican, okay, this is Catholics. They believe that it is in the Vatican, in those city, that's where there is some kind of mystical union with God. 

Same with the Jews. Okay, all these things, they come back to these Jewish mistakes, to the Old Testament, and to perverted Old Testament. Or, let's say, theology. 

Some people, they lack faith, and they replace it with theology. For example, in the Catholic world, and we also have it, unfortunately, there is this scholastic approach, okay, that we need to use philosophy, we need to use all these categories, Aristotle, to describe everything about God, etc., etc. And some people are possessed by that, because they don't have Christ, they don't have living Christ in their life, and they think that the more books they read, the closer to God they get, they have some grasp on God, because they don't believe, they don't have faith, they don't have faith. 

They believe in dogma, but they don't have faith, they are not in communication with the living God. And it takes another form in the Protestant environment, which is now also spreading everywhere. For example, this search for historical Christ, and all this obsession about archaeology, and finding those stones, okay, these places, okay, this is where the apostles came, this is this, this is that.

We study everything about Judaism in the first century, and then we find something, and we use all kinds of science, I don't know, literary criticism, text criticism, historical criticism, all those things, because we want to find out, we want to find out. You don't believe, you don't have faith, and that's why you think that you will touch those stones, and that will give you some assurance about something, about Christ, because you don't believe. The whole Protestantism is not, you don't believe, that's why you're always not sure, and you're always lost, okay, and you think that others are wrong, because you're afraid that maybe yourself is wrong, okay, you have that fear there all the time, and that's pushing people, motivating people for those things. 

I'm not saying that it's wrong, but when it comes out of this fear and lack of union with the God, it is unbelief, brothers and sisters, it's motivated by unbelief, and you think that the more scholarship you have, the more languages you know, the more diplomas you have in theology, the better you are, the more secure you feel. Well, you don't feel secure, because you are away from Christ, that's it, okay, and it has different other forms. Some people are afraid, for example, people are afraid to become Orthodox, because they have financial support from the organization which they are in right now, or they have a job there, and they're afraid now they need to switch, and they will lose all of that, and there is no, there are no guarantees in the Orthodox Church, okay, or some people in the Orthodox Church are afraid to criticize the church officials, because they're afraid that will be cut out of financial and status or something else. 

This is also unbelief. This is replacing, this is unbelief in the church. You think that the church is who gives you money, or which is organization that gives you status, that is the church. 

You don't believe in the living body of Christ. You don't believe that it's union with Christ that makes you a church and not something else, and it's Him who ultimately gives you what you need to survive. Your Savior is not your sponsor, your bishop, or something else. 

Your Savior is the Lord Himself, and everything else is just technical details, earthly part of our ministry. So, you see, there are all kinds of unbelief, brothers and sisters. The big unbelief in the Protestants that we see, that they get involved so much in the politics. 

We also may have some people, and even bishops have that, but maybe not as much as Protestants. This is also unbelief. There's all kinds of worldliness, brothers and sisters. 

You believe too much in, say, psychology, Freudism. Some people now, they think that that will help them resolve some psychological problems of themselves and others. That's unbelief. 

That's secularism. That's worldliness, and we have that worldliness everywhere. You're afraid of not being popular, of losing someone's support, or being strange, weird. 

People would think that you're weird if you think like that, and that's why you're silent, and you don't witness about Christian faith and Christian values, because you're afraid. You want to be one with this fallen world, and that is unbelief. Okay, but today, the main point, I want to come back, I want to stress it, that yes, there is a union of the divine and earthly, and we need to not to lose our vision, our embracing, us embracing the divine by just seeing the earthly part of it, and think that the earthly part is the divine, and that's it.

It is holy. This sacralization of earthly stuff without getting what it's all about. And also, liberalism and reformism is another version of this unbelief, brother sisters.

They would think that by changing forms and ways how we do things, liturgy or anything else, they can solve the problem. It's because of the way we do liturgy, or the language that we use in the liturgy. That is why we have some problems in the church, spiritual problems.

So, they are also, they've lost this link with the spiritual, and this is why they try to find solutions just in this material. But if you have union with Christ and communication with Him, you will see that it's not the form which is blocking Christ, it's your unbelief that is blocking Him. And other people are looking for other surrogates, this charismatic and other kinds of things, psychological. 

Some people love chanting, they think that now we have church chanting, the nicer it is, the better. All kinds of displacements, surrogates, that we think that they will help us, they will solve our spiritual problem. We feel that gap that we feel in our heart. 

Some people think it's about relationships, okay, they are stuck in those chats and all kinds of social media. Other people think that it's about photos, okay, they think, okay, now in the church we have many activities, photos, we put it in the Facebook, and you see they have consolation, oh, the church is alive, the church is going on. It's also a replacement. 

We have priests which also think it's so important to have all kinds of priestly elements that will show that they are priests and that they have status, etc. It's also lack of faith or valuing some status through medals or some other diplomas, special notes of achievement and other stuff. All of that is unbelief, brothers and sisters.

Lack of union with the true Lord and trying to find all kinds of surrogates. May the Lord keep us from that because this will matter, brothers and sisters. We are going to go through great many temptations. 

We are already going through big tribulations, okay, and we need to find healthy spirituality and really be one with the church of Christ, be in Christ all the time, and that will keep us all through, keep us from all kinds of delusion and slipping away into some one or another form of sin. All kinds of sins also come from that. We don't really have trust in the Lord and we slip into some sin. 

We don't read the prayers because we think it doesn't work. We don't go to church or we slip into some other habits, addictions. This is also some form of apostasy. 

May the Lord keep us from all of that, give us strength, strengthen our faith. The gift of faith is always a gift. It's always given to us by Christ, but we need to wish and crave for it with all our heart and do everything that we can in the right direction. 

Today I've outlined some false, fake directions. In the right directions, put our all effort in there and we will gain. The Lord will look upon us with mercy and He will gain us. 

He will heal our noose and He will give us faith to penetrate into the sky, through the sky, to reach the noetic altar of the Lord and receive Him, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters.