 Dear brothers and sisters, do we really know what is going on in this world? Where is it going? Why are we going to have the tribulation, the Antichrist? Why do we have the second coming of Christ? How do we react to all this news that we have every day about wars, about economic problems?
 these things if we understand the fundamental basic principle of Christian life. What does it mean to be Christian truly? As soon as we really understand that, and it may be a surprise for many of us to see that after years, decades of reading the Bible, we don't really understand it practically.
 of how does our faith apply to what is going on in this world and what the devil really wants through creating different conflicts. Or is it devil or is it people themselves? Or is it allowed by God? Well, within the church, there are two basic attitudes. One attitude is just to go by the flow. It's all allowed by God, so I cannot influence anything and be so.
 People usually, they believe the news or they have some bloggers that they like and they just listen to that and they just have their routine human life, okay? And other Christians, they would be always suspecting something evil and always complaining about this and that and always very worried about things like
 or these raiders, these horsemen of apocalypse, which will bring what? War, hunger, enslavement, economic problem. So they would see everything through that, and then they would just have very negative, maybe not fear, but this would be the main problem.
 But why? What is the ultimate goal? Why are these horsemen coming? What does devil want? And where does this world, where is it heading to? Brothers and sisters, the real problem is not about this data limiting, making people slaves, or depopulation, destroying so many people.
 also not just to destroy the church, okay, or to create a new religion, okay. Yes, yes, these are the objectives, but this is not the ultimate goal of devil. Devil doesn't just want to kill people, okay. If he or the people who are working for him, okay, his puppets, okay, his vessels, I don't know, call it,
 To kill most of humanity. They could do that easily. It's not a problem. Have all kinds of ways of doing it. No, that's not the goal. It's not the goal of the wars. Or epidemics. Maybe man-made or otherwise. No. And it's not just the goal to enslave people. To impose this data control about everything. No, that's one of the objectives. But that's not the ultimate goal.
 The ultimate goal, brothers and sisters, and we have to know that, otherwise we'll fall victims of that. The ultimate goal is to create the world of satanists, to create society which will hate true God, who will all become enemies of God, deeply, ideologically, spiritually,
 In every way, they will hate God. Everyone. Well, almost. Okay? This is the goal. Okay? How to create that? How to reach that goal? If we look back at Job. Okay? The book of Job. Okay? Holy prophet Job. Okay? He was deprived. Devil took everything from him. And then his wife came and told him,
 See, now you're sick, everything is destroyed. So just blame God, okay? Blaspheme against God and die. And he didn't do that. Okay, through his wife, it was devil talking to him. It was devil because his goal was not to deprive him of all those things. But his goal was to create someone who is alienated from true God.
 who is now blaspheming. He's a blasphemer. This is the ultimate goal. This is the ultimate task behind all these wars and famine and other things created or non-created, provoked by the devil, okay? So first he gives you through all kinds of advertisements and, okay,
 economic developments. He makes this wealthy lifestyle. He is spoiling you. He makes you dependent on all kinds of things to have a big house, to have consumption, to have this and that. And then he's stealing that from you. So first of all, you forget about God, but you're not yet blaspheming against God. You forget about God because you are immersed in this wealthy lifestyle, okay?
 Comfortable. Maybe it's not super wealthy, but it's comfortable. And you don't really need God to sustain that comfort. You just, I don't know, work. Or in socialist countries you are getting paid. Some year it's given to you. So also it's safe. You get stuff from the government. And then all of a sudden everything is taken.
 And when it's taken, you blame whom? You blame God. Even if you blame the government or the people or the economics, at the end of the day, you're blaming God. And brothers and sisters, I saw many people who used to come to church, who used to pray, who used to receive the Holy Communion.
 Trouble happened in their life. They left. They left. And they had grudges and complaints. Why God allowed that? I've done everything for him. I've done everything as he wants. Okay. But then he did not help me in this most difficult situation in my life. Some people are abandoned by their spouses. Some people have their families killed. Or they have their career ruined or something else. Okay. And they cannot...
 They cannot understand how come God wants them to suffer so much. Because they don't understand this fundamental principle of Christianity, brothers and sisters. And today I want to tell you about this. This is Apostle Paul, okay? In his letter to the Hebrews, okay? With the Hebrews, we don't know where they were, maybe in Jerusalem or somewhere else. It's Christians.
 who believed in Christ, but who had this Jewish background. And he's writing to them, and they apparently had some conversion, and they brought great fruits of faith, through persecution, through caring for each other, through virtuous life.
 rewards, but those rewards did not come. They were expecting, okay, now there should be something happening, like a champion who is fighting, okay, after he's a winner, he won everyone, he needs the medal, gold medal, but nobody gives him the gold medal, so he complains what's going on. So they were in that state. We can see it from the text in chapter 10, if you read carefully.
 I'm not going to go into deep analysis. I just want to tell you what he's telling them, okay? So now he's telling them, you have lack of faith and you are complaining and you don't have patience to wait for this reward, which was promised by God to you. But now it's another test that you have to go through, the test of patience, okay? It's not going to be that fast, but it is coming.
 Okay, so now let us just read. We take a look. It's chapter 10, verse 34 and 35. For you had compassion on me in my bones and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods. That they were deprived of their property. Knowing in yourselves that you have in heaven a better and enduring substance.
 Okay. So this is what they need. Okay. And he's teaching them to be thankful when somebody is abusing you. Okay. Somebody took your property, stole your property, burned your house, deprived you of your human rights. Rejoice and thank the Lord. And what is our reaction when there is some bad news? Okay.
 going down people are gonna lose jobs somebody is uh creating a chaos this and that oh so bad we have worldly carnal mind apostle tells us okay rejoice why rejoice well he is explaining because first you will participate in the sufferings of christ he has suffered of the evil and you will suffer of the evil how great he is
 deeming you worthy of walking the same path as he has. And also because this property that you have is another opportunity to sin. It is like shackles that you have. You have big house, let's say. You have to take care of this, of that. Always, I don't know, you need to cut the grass. You need to clean everything all the time.
 Payments and taxes and everything else and you're a slave of that house. Okay, and now you don't have anything you leave I don't know somewhere rented a little small cubicle or something, okay rejoice you're free you have not free time to pray to serve the go the Lord to do the Testimony he has taken all of that from you and there was not your fault. So just just be happy about that
 Because you are citizen of heavens and you're not part of this fallen world. Well, we need to be wise, of course, brothers and sisters. We need to be wise. But basically, it's another type of reaction. When everybody is saying, oh, how come this and that? How come they are doing this? They are raising tariffs. They are introducing some measures. They have war. They have this and that.
 it's all bad, okay? If it's harm to you, just be happy, rejoice, okay? So, brothers and sisters, it's really a different mindset. And also, when they do that, you bless them. You love your oppressors, okay? You truly love those guys, okay? I don't know, in your opinion, who is the
 the great villain of this world. Is it Bill Gates? Or maybe Putin? Or who? I don't know. George Soros? Rockefeller? Some masons? I don't know. Who is it? For you, okay? Now go and love those people. They're destroying you, your country, your family, everything. But you are blessing them. You wish them good health. You wish them long life. You wish
 them okay more children i don't know you wish them good can you do that well apostle tells us and the lord himself tells us that if we don't love our enemies we are not christians there is a direct relationship between these two things we are christians in in in so far as we can love our enemies okay in the epistle to the
 to the Corinthians, chapter 6, verse 6 and 7. The apostle is telling them,
 rather suffer yourself to be defrauded. Be defrauded. You're defrauded, okay? You're wronged. Stay that way. Don't revenge. But you will say, oh, but it will be like everybody will punch me, everybody will take advantage of me, and I will do nothing. Yes, but it's not because you're weak, not because you're a loser, but because you're a Christian,
 the heavens and you pray for those people, isn't that mind-blowing, brothers and sisters? This is mind-blowing. But we are in Christ if we are able to do that. He was blessing those murderers, those traitors who were betraying him, who were crucifying him. He was blessing them. He was praying for those Roman soldiers. He was praying for those Jews who were blinded and who screamed, crucify him, crucify him.
 Can we do the same? If we don't, we're not in Christ. We're not his disciples. He will tell us then, I don't know who are you. You come here, call yourselves Christians, but you're... I don't know who are you. Go somewhere else. And that somewhere else is this outer darkness. So, brothers and sisters, this is the main thing that we need to prepare for. Because now, if you are always complaining about, oh, what's coming, some bad things are coming,
 It's so bad. They have conspiracy against us. They want to enslave us. This and that. And I'm going to retaliate. I'm going to have ammunition in my house. I'm going to have this and that. So that if they come, I'll do something about them. Well, sorry, you're not Christian. And you'll fail. Okay? I can make you sure that you'll fail. Brothers and sisters, when we read the Revelation, the Apocalypse,
 How come in those days all the society will hate God, will worship Satan? Why they will not repent? No matter what is going to happen, if these prophets Elijah and Enoch are coming, preaching repentance, or there are some natural disasters which are calling people to repent their sins,
 But they get even more angry at God. And they have celebration when those witnesses of God are killed. And their corpses are thrown in that city. This new Sodom. Why? Why if they receive this mark of this beast? They cannot repent. They cannot be saved anymore at all.
 I mean, you can, by mistake, receive something. Do this shot. Or, I don't know, get a QR code. Maybe even in your forehead. I don't know, tattoo QR code or something. With 666. But then you repent. You say, Lord, sorry, I made a mistake. But at that time, no. How come? How come there won't be any people who repent after they get this?
 mark well the reason is brothers and sisters the reason is that they will become totally satanists in that in those days they will be utterly satanists they will be dreaming and screaming to get that mark it will be the goal of their life it's not going to be something like forced on everyone and once they get it they won't surrender it no matter what because they will be
 already spiritually locked so much into that Satanist mindset. So when we're talking about it, it seems as though it's still far away. But truly, brothers and sisters, it's bursting out all the time. Why do we have now people so secular? Why so few people really go to church and pray? Why? That's the reason. That's the reason. Because already they have this Satanism
 and worship in them this is why in this soviet post-soviet countries when you talk about religion with most people they will laugh or they they will say because they hate it okay and the same happens in the this western so-called democratic uh countries the same thing there is this hatred enmity and i'll tell you more there is this enmity built in catholicism and protestantism
 are nothing less than the trick of the devil to make Christians enemies of Christ. Thinking that they are Christians, but they become enemies. They rebel against the Holy Spirit. They fight the Holy Spirit. That began with the Rome, which said, we have now Pope, he is the savior. And that's why they were so hostile
 To any people, okay? They killed so many of those Muslims in those crusades. They killed so many Orthodox. They were killing each other in that Inquisition and whatnot. And even worse happened with these Protestants that they rebelled also against the Holy Spirit. Not against Rome. It was just... They thought that they rebelled against Rome, but in the end of the day,
 belt against the Holy Spirit. Because everybody began to think that he is God. He is the measure of all things. And it's his own interpretation of the Bible that counts. And everything which is against it is fake, is not true. And this is the spirit, brothers and sisters, that during the time of Christ it was already around. Because he said that the times are coming very soon that they will be killing you thinking
 that they serve God in that way. Can you imagine that? And all those people who killed him himself, they thought that they serve God. So who was their God? It was Satan already. And that's why those leaders, those Pharisees, etc., he called them the children of Satan. Your father is devil and you're doing the will of your father. So the goal is to make the whole world like that. They will think that they worship God.
 They will have that fake religion with Satan at the throne and everybody will worship him as God. So, brothers and sisters, we need to be wise. We need to be able to distinguish all those things. We need to be able to see that ecumenism is Satan worship. It's nothing less than that. And every split in the church, every problem within the church is this spirit of Antichrist bursting out,
 people into the apostasy. People are unhappy about this, about that. They complain. They create their own churches and splits, okay? And that becomes part of this synagogue of the devil at the end of the day. So, brothers and sisters, we are in these very difficult times. And if we don't get it ourselves, what does it mean to truly be Christian, to be happy about being deprived, being wronged, and thank the Lord for that?
 such heart we will be in those in that legion of the devil okay in those among those worshippers of the devil in one way or another takes all kinds of shapes and forms the devil knows well our reaction okay this is what he wants okay this is why also now these wars they are not really to kill as many people as possible you can observe it's about making
 All people suffer. Those drones and everything else and economic chaos, which is created as an outcome. It's all made to make people hate God, complain, live in fear. Hate each other. Have some enemies whom they hate so much. If we don't want to get into this apostasy, we need to be thankful to the Lord.
 And in your own life, you can notice when something bad happens, you lose willingness to pray. You have questions to the Lord. Because you think, why? Why like this? Why me? So he himself will blaspheme the Lord, his Antichrist, and he will create the whole world like that. The whole world will be like that.
 sect we see this sectarian movements so also you can imagine that all the evil people will think it's coming from god even if they don't understand this but this is what they will feel and life is going to get so bad that they will need that savior and he will come and he said salvation comes from me everything good comes from me i will save you and he'll do it okay he'll save you through
 material things, through AI giving you some solutions to your problems, through many things, he will be the source of that. And you will worship him. I hope not. Okay. And that happened already in that way or another. Okay. We have that with the socialists, with Lenin. We have this with these liberalists and democratic preachers of that glasnost and all that market economy.
 and all that stuff. We have that now with this inclusive capitalism, etc. It takes all different kinds of shapes and forms. And there will always be some kind of earthly antichrist savior coming out on the stage. And ultimately, it will be just one. And that will be him. He will basically be the Masha'ikh, the anointed one, the savior.
 Okay, it will be Christ for so-called Christians. Okay, Mohammed or what they have, that savior for the Muslims, Mashiach for the Jews, etc. It will be already one religion embracing all other kinds of religions. It's already created. Whenever they pray together, the bunch of ecumenists, okay, headed by Pope or by someone else, that is the church of Satan already. You can see.
 In the news. It's already out there. Okay? So, let us learn to thank the Lord. Let us be honest to ourselves. Always asking, am I a Christian? Because we're not. Okay? Do I love my enemies? Do I thank the Lord for miseries and all kinds of harm that I experience? Do I do that? Okay?
 or no, or if I blame someone else. May the Lord give us his blessing, give us his wisdom, give us a heart which loves him, which doesn't see anything else, any other value, but the kingdom of God and the treasures that he's gained. He says, as much as you've lost by someone stealing from you, as much you will gain in the kingdom of heaven.
 your life, because of your faith and love to Christ, you will have the eternal life in heaven. May the Lord give blessing and salvation and joy to all of us in these times of darkness, but these great times when the heavens are open to those who want them and who are seeking for them every day. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.
