 Dear brothers and sisters, the religion of Babylon, this synagogue of the Satan, is penetrating the church. It's trying to penetrate, and it's successful very often. And today I want to share with you some examples of how it's done, and also why is this going on.
 to understand why it's going on because if antichrist wants to have his own religion well he needs to subdue he needs to get away with true christianity and i discovered some things which are very bizarre very bizarre for example people who were born baptized orthodox
 I met some Greek, it's a company of trekkers who go to mountains, okay, and they are representatives of this so-called new age religion, even maybe subconsciously, I don't know. They would be against consumerism, they would be against what we call usually mammon, okay,
 just live for making money and spending money. They would be against all of that. But at the same time, they would hate Christ and his church. And they would love Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, Lamaism, Tantrism, whatever, as long as it's not Christianity. Okay?
 And they would be proclaiming love and creativity and freedom and all kinds of this rosy, cute kind of things. Okay? Diversity, tolerance, respect, etc. Democracy. You name it, brothers and sisters. You name it.
 I think you know what I'm talking about. And, of course, they would call us totalitarian, retrograde, hatred, that we hate women, that we hate, I don't know, minorities. We are Pharisees.
 despots etc okay we are from middle ages etc okay and of course this is just some names which are placed on us and for us as long as we love christ it doesn't stick no it doesn't stick to us because it's all false okay so now let us
 now talk seriously about what has happened. I don't want to spend too much time on a heretic situation, okay? Just a few words that we see this ecumenist movement even in the first half of the 19th century in Protestantism, and basically we have either this tolerance mentality of this inter-religious
 just dialogues and just no borders between churches because we don't care about how we believe and what we believe and how we practice our faith, okay? And that's some of them and others become this limited sect type, closed communities, which hate everyone else and which have this supremacy mindset.
 usually what we associate now with mission. And this is why it's perverted understanding, okay? That they come and they pull people like those Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons or other, especially Protestant sects, which are, okay, proclaiming that only in their small community, that's where the salvation is. And that's why it's all about pulling you
 So, I don't want to spend time on that, brothers and sisters. We see that in the Catholic context they were hacked. Even this monolith that seemed to be so big and huge during all these centuries
 split away and followed the Pope instead of following Christ. It seemed to be quite sound and well-educated and well-governed entity. It all collapsed, okay? In the 20th century, it all collapsed. And by the time the Second Ecumenical Council of Vatican made those decisions and papers,
 It was already rubble, okay? There was already the outcome of all that corruption of mind which happened within that entity. And if you want to know what the religion of Antichrist is all about, just read the papers of Second Vatican Council. Just read it, okay? It's all open, it's no conspiracy.
 which is merging with everything else, including Buddhism, Hinduism, and everything else, et cetera, et cetera. That's the blueprint, if you will, the roadmap to this world religion. And today, brothers and sisters, I want to talk to you about what's happening in the church,
 Orthodox Christian church. And there are many points to be concerned about, okay? And also in the 20th century, we see attempts to hack the church, which quite often succeed here and there. We see how several churches slip into ecumenism, officially. The Church of Constantinople signing that document in 1919,
 more than 100 years ago, which is already betrayal of the creed. I won't talk in detail. If you want, you can do your research on that. And then in 1923, the new calendar, which becomes betrayal of orthodoxy for some union with the heretics, Catholics, Protestants, okay?
 And nobody cared that two churches standing side by side, say one Serbian, another Greek, they would celebrate Christmas at different times, okay? Some would be joyfully celebrating, and next door people will be fasting, and it will be another 13 days until the celebration. What kind of unity is that within Orthodoxy?
 You're breaking, you're splitting the church. No, they didn't care about that. Well, maybe they did, but they cared how to destroy that unity, okay? Even though they are talking about unity all the time. So these are just big policy decisions, okay? And it's no coincidence, brothers and sisters, that in the 20s, in the Soviet Union, okay, after the revolution,
 There was this terrible destruction of the churches and slaughter of the clergy and the faithful, which took place in the Soviet Union by Bolsheviks. But at the same time, they supported and they recognized the so-called living church.
 the Bolsheviks and Constantinople recognized them as the church of Russia. And the true church was put in the dungeon, okay, or in the slaughterhouse. And that also tells us where the true church was at that time. And it's no coincidence that it was this revival, renewal kind of church, because that's also the church of Satan.
 That's the spirit and the dogma of this Babylon religion, if you will, which is coming, this religion of Antichrist. It's no coincidence that it didn't take any other shape because that's what it is, okay? So if you wanna see how it's gonna be, just look into what they were doing and practicing those people. So, but the general population of Russia,
 were not ready yet for such things. So they saw it's a fake, it's not Christianity, it's something else. At that time, there was still this memory of how the church is supposed to be. So they had to change and they've shifted to traditionalism, just as a decoration, okay? And this is a challenge, brothers and sisters,
 because sometimes we could think that we are traditionalists, but it is only decoration. Our mindset, our theology, if you will, our spirituality, most importantly, will already be this Babylon, this new age religion, if you will. So this so-called post-modernism, post-Christian mindset
 said, it's easy to understand, brothers and sisters, it's just this paganism, it's nothing new, because all these demons which are behind it, they are as old as the world, okay, and they haven't invented anything new, okay, so what is it, brothers and sisters, what is it? This is the spirit of rejecting, let's say,
 Modernism, without its trust in science and, you know, all this worshipping of man, okay, to something else, to some things which seems to be humble, okay, like this hippie style, okay, or this organic style
 nothing the dogs are more important okay and we care about environment we are green we are okay we are with nature okay we are like etc okay and it takes different shapes and forms brothers and sisters because for the western mind it may seem to be new but here in the east
 in Asia, he has thousands of years of history and development. And it's a wealth of all kinds of philosophies and practices in Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, Lamaism, Tantrism, you name it. There is a legion of those demons right here. And they just take different packaging, different look.
 And they are promoted to Christians, to Orthodox, and even to priests, and clergy, and monks, and the people who are supposed to teach us all what is the true Christianity. And the regular folk doesn't care. They believe whatever they are told in the church. Well, glory to God, not everyone is like that.
 the reason why you're listening to this video, I think, is that we want to be with Christ and we don't want any fake new age garbage. And we don't want to be driven by the spirit of this world with all this tolerance and the dialogue and all this polit correctness and all this fakeness, all this stuff.
 Okay, so what other ideas are common to people who become adepts of this new age mentality, even within the church, okay? It would be belief in some energies. Some energies, they are coming, they're going, they're feeling you and they're moving you, they're motivating you, et cetera. It would be belief in some, not belief,
 be obsession, I would put it this way. Obsession about miracles and prophecies, which is also quite common in the Orthodox world. Okay? It would be obsession about some methods like breathing, when you pray, how you breathe, that kind of stuff. Okay? I'm not saying that we cannot use it, but it would be like if you're obsessed about that, if you think that's what works,
 or it doesn't work. Sorry, you don't know who Christ is. Okay. It would be lack of any distinction. Okay, this ecumenist mindset. But as soon as, I don't know, Catholic, Protestant, or someone else comes, we pretend that it's all about the same. Okay. You're losing salt.
 is just thrown away. Or it will be this love of liberalism and democracy and human rights, which is quite common among liberal and modernist faithful. So they would really be shy to talk about things like why husband is ahead of the family, okay?
 Christian family, which is supposed to be small church, small kingdom, if you will. But no, they would be afraid of talking about these things like this. Or even about the kerchiefs to put on the hands of women when they pray. Okay, and many other things. And priests don't wear cassocks when they go outside in orthodox, supposedly orthodox countries. Because they think, okay, it would be maybe provoking some
 things in some people, so I just keep just regular clothes, and I don't care, okay, I'm just a regular guy, okay, this kind of things. These are just some examples, brothers and sisters, there are much more, there are much more things. Oh yes, another thing is also this modernist and liberal
 they would promote psychologism. Or like, how does faith help you in relationships? How you become more successful in making friends, in presenting yourself, in motivating yourself, in overcoming stress, et cetera, et cetera. And they would also be talking a lot about
 individual relationship type connection with God. Well, of course, I also talk about this, but I don't put emphasis on this interpersonal relationship at an expense of the church. Saying, the church is teaching you wrong stuff, but when you have this individual relationship with Christ, oh, that's when it works.
 Okay, so, brothers and sisters, we can see that there are all kinds of tricks of devil tricking us and pulling us away from salvation into darkness. And people who may think that they are Orthodox and Christians become enemies of Christ at the end of the day because of lack of prayer, lack of repentance, lack of theological education, laziness,
 and falling deep into apostasy. May this all be away from us, brothers and sisters. I hope that you can also see this terrible situation with the younger generation who are in this thing and not get excited about, oh, you see, they are now more spiritual, they don't talk about consumption and all these things, so they are more spiritual.
 about uh how they greet dogs on the street okay or other environmentalist uh stuff buddhist stuff okay so uh brothers and sisters let us um have this immunity immune system because even within the church within uh parish community you're not um guaranteed from this
 Now I see what people are talking about in the social media, the Orthodox, and I'm just so terrified because it's all new age stuff in this Orthodox rapping. May this be far away from us, brothers and sisters. Far away from us. Only asceticism and spirituality and very active ministry
 Mission and self-education in theology can save us from all this stuff. And reading the gospel every day, okay? Living by the word of God. May the Lord help each and every one of you and give his blessing to all of us on this path of salvation and testimony to everyone of his truth, love, and resurrection. Amen. God bless.
 sisters.
