 Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord, He said, beware of the living of Pharisees and Sadducees. He wants us to be careful about spiritual threat, all kinds of viruses that want to penetrate, that want to make us part of this world.
 Chosen people of God became satanists and idol worshippers, and they chose Antichrist instead of Christ. And they hated him and the word which he spoke and the testimony of love that he has done, and they've crucified him, thinking that they serve God. This happens because of the spirit of this world, this spirit of Antichrist.
 is trying to penetrate into everywhere, everyone's heart. And unless we can feel it and we can see it, this means that we are ourselves carrying this spirit of Antichrist. We ourselves are servants, slaves of the Mammon and not of Christ. Today I want to share with you some thoughts about this spirit that we need to be aware of,
 And at the same time not to make you follow this way of radical sect, radical protestants who don't see anything except something, okay? Sola Scriptura, only Bible. And that's why they see devil everywhere and they are very radical about
 all other sects who are not with them and they don't see any anything they don't see any light anywhere okay outside of the very narrow concept idea of their own sect okay and you may say oh you're speaking about orthodoxy no i'm not i'm speaking about those sects because in the true christianity
 we see the Divine Logos, the Word of God everywhere. We see Him in nature. We see Him in the guidance of different nations who are yet not Orthodox, not Christian, but who are guided by Him through centuries. And thus we can see Christ even in the non-Christian history
 culture of this world. But we are not ecumenists who don't distinguish anything and they welcome everything and they open themselves to anything and they don't see much difference between Christianity and Hinduism, Buddhism, Muslim, Judaism. Everything is nice and wonderful. So this is another fallacy and we need to really
 be able to distinguish which is which, okay? And not to fall into either of these two. And I've spoken about this before in my videos, okay? So today I want to focus on identifying this spirit of the mammon in everyday life and encounter. Because many people in the church, they speak about harm coming from sects,
 from heresies, from some cults, okay, but those are somewhere out there, those people are somewhere out there, or this new age movement, some movements, okay, this danger is there, or some communists, atheists, yes, it's a problem is there, it's not with all the people, all the people are good, it's okay, it's all right, okay, we don't see any harm or any trace,
 of Mammon in the people we meet every day with our relatives, our friends, our colleagues, people on the street, people in bookstore. You know, we don't say, all these are pagans, all these are atheists, all these are new age, new paganists, okay? Because if we would think about this all the time, we would go crazy, okay? You would see some hellish dogma or philosophy
 in everyone whom you can encounter during the day. And you'll go crazy, okay? So where is this balance, okay? What is the healthy way of living in this society? The healthy way is to be vigilant, brothers and sisters. And then you will see both the Lord's image in every human being. You will love him and you will be kind like Apostle Paul.
 He was everything to everyone. So that at least some people may be saved. So we don't distance ourselves from everyone. But at the same time, we don't embrace all their sinful ideas, lifestyle, etc. So there is really this need for this balance of the two. How to find this balance?
 The answer, the quick answer is that it's spiritual. No matter how much I tell you, how much I explain, I share some experience, ideas, if you don't live intensive spiritual life, you will not get it. Well, you might understand it, but tomorrow it will be gone. Maybe a few hours later it will be gone. And you will be living pagan life, as most of us do, thinking that we're Christians. So it is really the matter of spiritual life.
 intensity of our search for Christ, and only that can bring us out of delusion. Okay, having said that, I still want to share with you some thoughts, some observations, some tricks to identify the spirit of mammon around us. So, as I said, many people identify problem in sects, etc.,
 The problem is that we live in this modern world, the so-called modern world, which is mass culture, which is mass people, and it is gnostic. I've talked about it before. Gnosticism. Different shapes and forms. Which is basically occultism. Some shape of Kabbalah. That is all anti-Christian in nature.
 ideas, the basic lifestyle, the basic what shapes, what forms modern people who are just regular people. And we say the common sense, some things are common sense, some things is just life experience. No, you need to see that this life experience and life logic is bringing you to Mammon. The wisdom of this world and the wisdom of God are fundamental.
 different. And you need to see that difference. Unless you see it, you don't have faith. You live by this spirit of this world. Okay, so now having said this, I want to move to three ways of finding out if we are in Christ or we are being reprogrammed, if you will, by the spirit of this world.
 And the first one would be what I've just mentioned. Would be this logic of this world. Do you see that logic everywhere? In everyone who surround you? And ultimately in yourself? Do you see that? Okay? If you don't, then you're part of it. Okay? For example, you can ask yourselves questions like,
 me, okay? Is it to have a stable work, okay, job, income, well-being, the so-called well-being, pursuit of happiness? I have my happiness. What is my happiness? I have my lifestyle, I enjoy, I travel, I can afford all the stuff I want in the shops, okay? I have self-satisfaction with my
 family, I can trust myself, I can be confident, I have peace of mind, I'm psychologically sound, okay, I have, I don't know, life is interesting, it's enriching, I have tasty food, I'm healthy, okay, this is happiness for me, okay, sorry, you are a pagan, if this is the priorities, and this is the lifestyle, and this is what you want, and what you care,
 that you are a pagan and just be honest to yourself and don't try to hide this with a fig tree of saying that, well, I'm a Christian, I'm baptized, I go to church. This is irrelevant, okay? The Lord will say, I don't know who you are, guys. You come and say, Lord, Lord, we've done this, we've done that, but I don't know who are you, guys. You are not people who love me, who chose me,
 who sacrificed anything for me. Yes, yes, you sacrificed some donations you gave to please your vainglory, but it's not because you love me, okay? So, brothers and sisters, we need to distinguish these things, okay? Whenever we are guided by the logic of this world, okay, this is experience, okay, you will become very
 you will be very, I don't know, you will find right ways to deal with people, you will have experience in finance, in life relationships, okay? You will become egoist, inevitably. You might become altruist, but this is another delusion, okay? We are talking about altruism in North America, okay? In Soviet Union, okay?
 yourself for that idol yes maybe you're not egoist but you are nevertheless a pagan idol worshiper okay so when these things are not in you only then you are with christ when you are with him you see his wisdom above everything else and that is faith and that is absurd but this is
 what we choose. Yes, it's absurd, it's not logical, it's not worldly, it's not practical, but this is the wisdom of Christ. This is love of Him, when we love Him with all our heart and all our soul and all our mind and all our strength. So, brothers and sisters, this is something I really hope that every one of you can see everywhere around you, but not be scared of it, okay?
 second is we need to ask ourselves if the light of Christ is what moves me and what is the sole priority for me from morning till night I seek him I love him I serve him I want to be with him and this is above everything else and this is the agenda for me is this so if my faith is just yes I believe in
 Yes, I go to church sometimes, but now I have my projects, I am busy, I have this, I want that, okay? I get a lot of information from my blog, and I have motivation from some other sources, some interesting people, okay, some interesting books, TV, I don't know, watch movies, or I don't know where we draw our joy and information, satisfaction, motivation,
 You want to go yoga. You want to do tai chi. You want to have breathing techniques or some other neo-pagan stuff that makes you happy, relaxed or whatever. Well, sorry, you haven't found Christ yet. You haven't met him yet. And we need to be honest to ourselves, brothers and sisters. If we are pagans, we need to tell ourselves, I'm still a pagan. And not trick ourselves and fool ourselves by some surrogate of Christianity.
 Okay. So, of course, this doesn't mean that we are rejecting everything which is outside of Christ. There is nothing outside of Christ. Something which is not evidently related to church, to gospel. No. We see God everywhere in this world. But when we see God in other people,
 nature, in history, culture of different pagan people, well, people who are outside of the church, okay, those nations, when we see God there, we also see the opposite there, okay, we see the air and the, okay, this mammon there, we see that also, yes, so we don't become like closed and only say, oh, sola scriptura, oh, only this, everything else is hell and etc., it's darkness.
 No, okay? But also, of course, we don't become these ecumenists who are eating everything and who are tolerant to everything, and this is Hinduism. By the way, brothers and sisters, do you know Hinduism is you worship everything, okay? They have more than a billion gods, okay? You worship cow, ox, dog, okay? You worship your relatives on special days,
 They become gods, for example, days of celebrating your brothers, let's say, and his sisters will do religious ceremony to their brothers, okay? You worship everything, all this animism, shamanism, where you have spirits everywhere, at every bush, okay? Every, I don't know, you have what? You have, let's say, you have a pen, okay? And this pen helps you, so it's God in this pen, okay?
 It's all ghosts all over the place. This is what it ultimately boils down to, okay? This ecumenist idea. And we have that in the church, which I've spoken a couple of videos ago about. That, okay, this power and these miracles and all this stuff. So let us not be paganist, okay? And able to, whenever you seek the light of Christ,
 and it's everything for you, you will see what is not in line with Him. You need to have this deep feeling and knowledge of Christ and Holy Spirit. And then, only then you will distinguish what is fake spirit, what are these Protestant fake testimonies of different miracles and stuff like that. And no matter who and when and what,
 you're gonna hear, you will see that it's fake. You will see that it's not the Holy Spirit out there, okay? And the third thing that I want to say is, I've already said, but just to emphasize, is that we need to see this error and delusion wherever there is one, okay? We need to see it in just regular people, just common sense people
 us. If you don't see it, sorry, you're part of it. Okay? All pseudo-Christian religions, confessions. Okay? We need to see it. Okay? Logic of this world, experience of this world, proudness of this world. We need to poke through all that stuff. And there are very few people who can do that. Okay? And this is what we ask in the Lord's Prayer.
 temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. We don't want to be a part of temptation, part of this world which is perishing, which is dying, which has no light, it's sitting in despondency, in darkness, in all kinds of delusion, harming themselves, killing themselves every day by what they do, how they live, how they think. May the Lord help us, make us true ministers of His
 gospel of his love may his wisdom be upon every one of us okay now we are entering the nativity fast it's a great period of craving for christ expecting his coming penetrating into this wisdom of salvation and incarnation of the lord coming on earth this time has
 of advent of the nativity fast for 40 days okay we are focusing on vigilance on prayer on the holy scripture on ministry self-sacrifice growing in faith in virtue and then we truly can greet him he can truly come and dwell in us and this is the purpose of his coming to this world and we need to see you to feel this
 through us, this incarnation is going to be brought to this world, okay? Be embraced by all the people who are still sitting in darkness and who are still unable to get out of all kinds of fake religion, faith, and worship all kinds of garbage, okay? May our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of us. May his wisdom,
 His grace, His love be in us and be brought to this world through us. Ameen. God bless, brothers and sisters. Merry Nativity. Fast.
