 Dear brothers and sisters, on December the 4th, we celebrate the entrance of the Holy Theotokos into the temple. You can learn more about this feast. Today I want to say about the main core meaning of this feast, which is preparing us for Christmas. We're now in the beginning of the Christmas land, and in the way that the Holy Virgin entered into the Holy of the Holies.
 we enter into the kingdom of God. We enter into this new reality of living in the resurrected Christ. His coming is opening to us this reality. And also this feast is telling us that every one of us needs to become the temple of God. The mother of God, she came, she entered this temple, and eventually this temple loses its meaning,
 Because she becomes the new temple. She becomes the living temple that will give space, that will welcome living God. Because God does not want to live in stones. He wants to live in our hearts. And we are reminded that this is the goal of our life. This is the path that we follow.
 Brothers and sisters, I want to share with you some thoughts on what is impeding us on this path. Why most of the people in this world, they choose to follow Mammon. Why they choose the broad way which leads into destruction. And they refuse to follow the narrow path. The narrow path that leads to salvation. Very often people think that the problem is some evil governments.
 or some conspiracies, or it's the devil, or it's something else. The problem is in us, brothers and sisters, in you and me. This problem is the choice that we make every day. And we either make this choice in favor of Christ and the truth, or we choose the spirit of Cain, we choose the prince of this world,
 slaves become slaves we become possessed by the spirit of this world and the whole world is deceived by this spirit and this is the biggest problem so now that we think about the mystery of piety the mystery of the divine word coming to this world becoming one of us taking up the human flesh establishing his church so that it can be
 the witness of this truth and resurrection comprising all the people who choose him and also this brings to manifestation to exposure this choice of people who don't want christ who choose the imam who choose the prince of this world who choose to become children of the devil this mystery of iniquity this is the mystery
 of the conspiracy of the devil himself against God and people. And at the end of the days, which we are now in, the closer that we approach the second coming of Christ, the more this mystery is manifest. Both the mystery of the piety and the mystery of the lawlessness of iniquity is exposed, is being more and more exposed.
 It's manifested. It will no longer be a mystery, okay? Because everything that is hidden will be exposed, and everything which is secret and concealed will open, will be open to the exposure to light. So, to understand what is happening now in the world, and what are the real dangers, and where is the real spiritual fight is taking place,
 to remember we need to remember that the history of the world is about exposing this choice making this choice more and more clear whom do people choose okay okay just to give you an example if you marry someone okay and this someone is entertaining the spirit of cain what is the spirit of cain is the spirit of selfishness
 of deceit, of betrayal, of worldliness, of seeking some benefit for yourself. This is the spirit. And if this person is entertaining the spirit, is growing the seed of Cain, is becoming more and more child of the devil, no matter what you do and no matter how long you're trying to save your marriage
 trying to have a healthy family, it will fail. Well, you could be that person also, okay? Don't think that it's always someone else, because every one of us has that seed, okay? And we let it grow more often than not, okay? That's why the Lord said, this adulterous and sinful generation, how long will I bear you? How long will I suffer to live here?
 with you, okay? Because all the people, all those Jews who believe in one God and who are all not just believe, they are not heretics, they were the Orthodox, okay, of that time, live along heretics, live along Gentiles, pagans, even those who were the chosen people supposedly, okay, became children of the Satan, okay? They all,
 were blinded. The Lord said, your eyes are blind. You hear, you listen, you don't hear. You watch and you don't see. And you don't repent and you don't come to me that you may be saved. But you will say, oh, there is one God, like those ecumenists they like to say. Yes, all of them believed in one God. So what? This didn't help them to avoid deception, blindness, worldliness, mammon. No. And it won't help all those heretics
 and all those ecumenists, okay? And just to illustrate this apostasy that we are in right now, just look at what happened with this meeting of this Patriarch of Constantinople, the so-called Patriarch, the fake Patriarch, and the fake Pope, okay? When they met recently in Turkey to celebrate the 1,700 years
 of the First Ecumenical Council. And everyone who is a slave of Mammon was applauding to that event. Because it must be evident to everyone who is seeking the truth, who is faithful to Christ, who has at least some spiritual life, it must be evident that Rome and all this papacy are sitting in apostasy more than a thousand years already.
 and inventing all the time, all this deception, all this fake saints, just going to some bookshop, Protestant, Catholic, no matter what it is, it's going to be 99% of garbage there, including all this blasphemous paintings and pictures of Christ and saints.
 Just to summarize, okay? I talk sometimes about Catholics and Protestants and heretics, okay? And now I'll also talk about the Orthodox who betrayed Christ. We should know, okay? We should know that in the same way as your spouse, let's say, she or he is possessed by that spirit of apostasy, by Cain, and eventually it will be a failure.
 Or if, let's say, you have a government of Satanists who have their own agenda and they just destroy their people. In the same way, it is the beast, the prince of the world himself, who sat on the throne of the bishop of Rome more than a thousand years already. It's not just some filioque, some mistake.
 theological ideas that flourished there. And they, okay, had drifted away because they had some different ideas. It's not about that. It's about the beast sitting on that throne. Can you understand that? And trying to drape itself with different things. Okay, now we have some theology, some universities. Now we have something else.
 We have agenda with the Crusades. Now we have some beautiful stuff with our liturgies and pilgrimage and other stuff like that. And we build cathedrals and other stuff. It's all just draping. It's also just draping this mammon, this beast sitting there, okay? And giving birth to all these beasts of Protestant sects who are just like a bunch of rats
 trying to eat each other and fighting all the time with all those religious wars that we have in Europe. Because all of them were driven by the same Spirit, just in different shapes and forms, this proudness. Why do these Protestants, they hate so much the Holy Spirit? Why do they hate saints? Why do they hate sacraments?
 church the body of christ and try to justify their small little sects why is that well because they don't want to repent they don't want to fast they don't want to fight with the mammon so it's just as justification of that prince of the world this same beast same demon trying to put him in the christian clothes okay this surrogate christianity fake worldly okay this this poison
 that makes people deceived and go into some fantasies, etc. And this is why it's so hostile to true Christianity. And this is why it's so eager to do mission. That mission is driven by passions, by desires to deceive as much people as possible into this fake Christianity. And the Antichrist himself will be a fake Christian. We read about that in the
 Apocalypse. When we compare it to other books of the Bible, we see that it's about the new Babylon that is being built. And the Babylon seems to be tolerant to all religions, but it's building the religion of Antichrist, the one world religion. And this is what has happened just a few days ago in Turkey. Because this so-called patriarch, this fake
 this clown, okay? He invited the Pope and he sacrificed other patriarchs because there would be much more patriarchs who would come participate in that event in case Pope would not come. But no, for him it was about the Pope. And from the whole liturgy and from the whole ceremonies that they've done, we see that they look at Pope as the master, the head of the church.
 For them, there is already no division. They've betrayed orthodoxy. They've betrayed everything already. They've betrayed Christ. They are driven by the same spirit, by the same mammon. You have to see this, brothers and sisters. You have to look through what's going on. Through all this fakeness and all this rhetoric that they have love, that they are for peace,
 is hatred and etc. Well, we just want to have the true Christianity, nothing else. Okay? Not this apostatic heresy with everything from Teresa, from Loyola with the meditations, from all these charismatic new movements and all kinds of other garbage and sickness that there is in Catholicism. Okay? We just want to be loyal.
 Christ and not to be this demon-possessed crowd of satanists, of demoniacs, thinking that they are possessed by the Holy Spirit. This is what we want. We are not proclaiming any hatred. We love all of them, but we hate lie. We hate sin. We hate apostasy. We want to be loyal to Christ.
 evil within ourselves. First, we have to fight with this through ascetism every day. And only that will free up freedom in our hearts for love, for true prayer, for true self-sacrifice, for the unobstructed proclamation of the gospel and resurrection. This is what we want. So this event can show to all of people of Christ
 who is who and what is going on right now. Because we have these Orthodox who betray the Orthodoxy. We have this voice of the priests, of some priests of the church, even the Russian church, which is supposedly in conflict with Constantinople. But even there we have those liberal priests and monks and lay people who are praising
 going on, this ecumenist merge with this heretic papist structure. This tool of devil, evidently. It became tool of devil. I'm not talking about all Catholics, among them there are people who are still honestly seeking for truth. But if they go, if they have enough patience,
 and resolve, they will find the truth in the Orthodox faith. But not in those Orthodox, fake Orthodox people who are now celebrating those events. And I see that hundreds of people, hundreds of thousands of people, of lay people, they support it. They think they don't see anything. They don't see the deception, the lying. This is where we see
 Who has communication with Christ and who doesn't, okay? Because who doesn't, they don't see it. They won't see Antichrist, believe me. They all will follow the agenda. They all will rush like that herd of pigs into the deep sea and drown there. Okay. So, today's video is quite harsh, brothers and sisters.
 If we don't expose these things, if we don't talk about it, it would be too late. If you don't see it now, you won't see it. So the solution to all this, brothers and sisters, we should not be afraid. We should not be afraid of, I don't know, Bartholomew or the Pope or some other masons, you name it, whoever is behind it. We should not be afraid of that. We should be afraid of slipping into sin,
 delusion and losing love towards Christ. And these three things are interconnected. If you have love towards Christ, you will not have delusion. And if you don't have delusion, you won't have sin. Okay, you won't sin. Okay, like serious, big time. Okay, you might depart a little bit, but okay, immediately come back. And you will confess it all the time. You will repent.
 you will come closer and closer to God, become cleaner and cleaner. All of us are not perfect. But there is this ultimate choice that we make every day. And if you sin, that means that you don't love Christ and that you will be deluded. You will be deceived. Some people think that they know. If you just listen to me, it will not help, brothers and sisters. You have to live spiritual life. The warfare that we are now dealing,
 with is spiritual warfare. It's not about rational understanding. It's not about reading books or listening to some bloggers. It's spiritual, brothers and sisters. If you don't wake up, if you don't now begin to live only for Christ and crave for his coming, okay, that we are now focusing on, on this Christmas land, you will fail, brothers and sisters. Big time. Okay? So, this is something real.
 So this is what Christmas Lent is all about. It's not about some diet regulations or about some special prayers and tarparia that we need to chant during these days. It's not about special food and music and decorations in the church. It's not about that. All of those things are coming later. The first thing is that we need to go, we need to,
 seek for that path towards christ to prepare path for his coming okay this is the goal of every day of our life every moment that we live if we are not conscious of that if we just leave okay nothing is gonna save us some people say we are standing in truth we are orthodox well if you're standing you will be just like a pole with a light pole okay on the street you will not enter the
 To enter into the kingdom, we have to be followers of Christ. Follow him, take up your cross and follow me, he said. Okay, so we need to be following, we need to be moving. And we need to know where do we move, to whom are we moving. Okay, why are we moving? What are the obstacles? What are the dangers? This is the problematics that we need to live in. And not, okay, what do I do to enjoy my life today? We need to stop being canines.
 brothers and sisters. Otherwise, it's going to be too late. This apostasy is going to suck everybody in through AI, through everything that's surrounding us in this world of Babylon. So please, brothers and sisters, don't be afraid of all those things. Be afraid to depart from Christ. That's the only thing. With him, we are getting the healing. We're getting the salvation. We are
 We are learning to love, to sacrifice ourselves. We are learning meekness and humbleness. We're growing in virtue. But without it, we're done. We're finished. We're finished. May the Lord help everyone of us on this path. Let me see if I've missed anything that I wanted to say. Okay.
 Please be aware, brothers and sisters, that the world is possessed. The world is possessed. And every one of us may be possessed to some degree by the spirit of Cain. We don't want that. We want to be with the truth, with the righteousness. We want to bring testimony of Christ to this world.
 this world of apostasy. We're not alarmist, okay? But we just need to see things clearly. Okay, what's going on? Where is the true spiritual struggle? It's not with those patriarchs, okay? Again, coming back to that topic. It's not with those patriarchs that they have some councils and decide what to do with big events. The true spiritual fight is happening in our hearts, brothers and sisters. It's in the choice that you and I make every day.
 This is the choice that will either allow Antichrist to come and rule the humanity soon, or it will be postponed yet, and we still can do much to the glory of God. May the Lord help us on this path. May he guide us in this ministry, in this testimony.
 truth coming from the Lord. May the Lord be with all of us, all of you, brothers and sisters, and Mary, entrance of the Mother of God to the temple. Amen. God bless.
