 Dear brothers and sisters, the last video about the ecumenist celebration of the 1700th anniversary of the First Ecumenical Council in Turkey produced some discussion among subscribers. And one of the subscribers, he told me that, Father, we don't really understand what's wrong with Catholics. Because people now are all into their daily shopping, into some chat,
 Facebook and all those things that we don't really have that background to understand what was wrong, why they split away. And now you're telling us these things. We really don't have enough basis, preparation to understand what is this all about. Why are we so concerned about not uniting with Catholics? So even if people who are from the so-called
 Orthodox countries have this problem. Of course, people from non-Orthodox countries, they would have even bigger problem understanding what's wrong. And people here in Taiwan, in Asia, even less. So today I want to explain the main problems with the Catholics, which produced Protestantism. Because it's not that Protestantism corrected the mistakes of the Catholics. No, by no means.
 produced even bigger problems, bigger heresies. It became even more radical ramifications, okay, of the Catholic apostasy. So, today I want to explain. I will tell you about three main things which make Roman Catholicism not a church. That we can be absolutely sure that it's not a church. Because many people, they say, well, it's the same. Have priests, bishops,
 Okay. Service. Little different. It's maybe just cultural thing. Well, no. No. It's a fundamental thing. It's like you have an apple. One is good for eating. Another is spoiled. It's poisonous. Or rotten. It's not good for eating. Maybe it looks similar. Okay. From the outside. So, it's not about how it looks. The thing is we need to have spiritual life. We need to search for
 God. We need to love Him. And then the inner meanings will be opening to us. Okay, so today I want to just give you a very brief introduction into this topic. Because we can list all the heretic teachings of Catholics. It will be a very long list. And even more about the spiritual fallacies and all these crazy and
 diverted, perverted ways of spirituality, adoration of the body of Christ for two, three hours, staring at that piece of bread. Or fantasies, all these meditations, this compassion, this fantasies about how painful the wounds of Christ were.
 All these romantic things of Teresa, of Avila and this small Teresa. And many other stuff. It's really sick, brothers and sisters. When you look at it from the point of view of the healthy Christian spirituality, asceticism, you see how sick all that stuff is. But apparently all the Catholics are so much into it. All the bookshops are full of that stuff.
 together with the charismatic stuff okay which which was approved by by the pope in the 70s okay so but those are already the outcomes the fruits but let us look into the core problems okay the core problems which happened and because of that rome became something else because some people now also say oh we're traditional catholics we like latin mass we go back to pre
 Vatican II faith. So we're fine. We don't go into this Vatican II reforms. No, brothers and sisters. The problem happened more than a thousand years ago. And it just was getting worse and worse throughout the centuries. And brought to Vatican II. Okay, so this fundamental problem. What it was? In the time when there was no ecumenism yet. Roman Catholicism
 very different back then. But still, the same problem are there all these centuries. What are they? Well, the first... Okay, also, brothers and sisters, before I tell you about these three things, I want to give you a parable. Okay? It's a parable of a ship. Okay? Because now we have two ships. One is the Orthodox Church, another is the Catholic.
 protestant it's not really already not ships it's uh some small barks some small boats which are all leaking which are all drowning okay um but now we have these two ships one is a bit smaller the orthodox however it's um it's it doesn't have hole in it it doesn't drown it uh okay it can be shaking back and forth and some people are jumping out and drowning okay
 It may have some crazy people inside of this boat who tell you some crazy stuff, but the boat itself is going in the right direction. On this boat, even though it could be shaking and not so nice sometimes and small, but it's going there. It will take you to salvation if you go on this boat, if you don't jump out and do whatever the holy people and
 the Holy Spirit is telling you, okay? And you will receive the food and everything that you need, the knowledge that you need on this boat. But there is a bigger one, and it's nicer, it may be a luxury, but it will drown. It is drowning, okay? If you get there, you will drown for sure, but it will be more comfortable and bigger and more people inside, okay? So this is Catholicism. This is the difference. It seems to be,
 more beautiful, more professional, much more people and crew and everything else, but it will drown. It will drown you right away. It doesn't give you salvation. So, having said this parable, let me go back to the three big problems with Catholicism. The first one is the Pope. The Pope is not the same as Patriarch, as Catholics like to say. It's the same as
 your patriarch. It's a completely different thing. The pope is the principle of the infallibility of the church and the principle of unity of the church. But both the infallibility and the unity belongs to God himself. The pope takes on himself the functions of God. Okay? Because for the true church, for the
 who lives in the church will make the whole church infallible because God is infallible. But every bishop, every priest, every patriarch, they can fall away. They can go astray. So, okay, we don't have infallibility of bishops, priests, patriarchs. You don't have to agree with him on everything. You have to agree with the whole church, okay? The creed, the holy fathers, the holy councils, the, okay,
 the ascetic teaching and the sacraments of the church, etc. But you don't have to agree to any pope, any bishop. And another function is this unity of the church. We are united in the true church of Christ through his body and through Holy Spirit, who unites us with Christ. But in the Catholic church, you are united with the church through pope. Because if you don't recognize him, you are not Catholic. You are something else.
 You're schismatic, you're heretic, you're not part of the church. You have to recognize Pope. So the first question they will say, do you recognize the Pope? And then they will ask you, how do you believe? Like this, like that, you're liberal, you're conservative. But the first thing, do you recognize Pope as the head of the church or you don't? So it's the recognition of this man that makes you part of the church.
 of God from him, the function of the Holy Spirit. So this is the Judaizing heresy. Okay, what is Judaizing heresy? The Judaizing heresy is the heresy which links God and divine to some earthly stuff. It links, okay, like all the grace, all the truth were linked to Mount Zion, to the temple,
 Okay, in this, from the late Old Testament time. In the same way now, in the New Testament, they say, oh no, we have to link the church to Vatican. We have to link the church to Pope, this human who is the head of the church. So this linking is heresy. Okay, you cannot link.
 All that happened. The Church of Carthage just disappeared. The whole big local church. Okay? The Church of Rome went into heresy. Big local church. Any church can go to heresy. Local church. But the whole Church of Christ will not. Okay? So, they say no. The Church of Christ is linked, is pegged, is linked, okay, to Vatican. And, of course, they build it on this wrong
 explanation of the words of Christ that Peter is the rock and upon this rock I will build my church. So they say, oh, now Pope is her successor of Pope. So it's linked to Pope. This is a great heresy. Okay. Because the rock, the Peter, he is a rock because of confession that he made. Later he failed, we know.
 He will repent and come back. And your faith will again make you the rock upon which others can rely. It's the confession, the true orthodox confession of faith, which is the rock. As long as we are on this rock, we're confessing the true faith. We are that rock. And not just some magically, just by the reason of voting,
 conclave okay this guy will be the pope who voted signed signed published okay he is pope now magically he has this uh he becomes this stone this is so far away from the gospel the bible itself says there is no man who lives and will not
 infallacy is against the Bible. And it's not just in the 19th century that they have it. Because, yeah, it was officially published in 19, sorry, in the 19th century, okay, Vatican I. But this idea of Pope being infallible comes from the ancient time, from the time when they said
 Pope is the head of the church, of the whole universal church of Christ on earth. From the time when they proclaimed this heresy, they have this understanding. So now he is infallible. He is the measure of everything on earth. Okay, whatever. He is the true interpreter of the Bible and of the faith and of the morals of everything.
 pertains to faith and Christian life. So this is heresy, brothers and sisters. Okay, another big problem, okay, other than Pope. And Protestants, they are against Pope, but they become Pope every each and single one becomes a small Pope. That's why every single one has the full right to understand the gospel and the Bible as he pleases. And that will be the truth for him. So he has this, this is humanist.
 idea that humans are above God. This comes from papacy and goes to the Protestants. Okay, so this heresy is still there. It became much worse because now everyone becomes popes in Protestantism. Okay, the second problem, big problem in the Roman Catholicism is the problem of the slander against God.
 Okay, what do I mean? The normal Western understanding, both in Catholic countries and in Protestant, is that God is offended by our sin. And he is punishing people in hell. And you have to live with this fear all the time. Because if you sin and you don't do everything that he wants to compensate, you will go to hell.
 you will be tortured there. So God is dangerous. There is some danger out there. This is blasphemy. This understanding of God is blasphemy. They say this is because of justice. You need to make up for how much you offended him. You have to make up for that. The Protestants say, no, no need to make up. We just believe and automatically it's cancelled.
 who is this very fierce and angry judge okay who either will punish you or he will just say no no don't worry because you believe so i i don't uh count your sins justification the protestant idea uh so this is so much against uh for example the parable of jesus he said that
 the prodigal son. He wasted everything. He sinned so much. But when he was coming back to his father's house, repenting, the father, he ran out and he met him and he restored his dignity and he made a big celebration because of his return. Sorry, was it according to justice? According to some rules? He said, oh, you sinned. You sinned how much? ABC. Now you need to make up ABC.
 No. No unconditional love. He just ran out and embraced his son. And restored everything to him. Where is this place of this angry justice that he needs to compensate? He needs us to be able to compensate for that. No. It's not there. Because it's a blasphemy. You cannot love God like that, brothers and sisters. Yes, you can have fear. You can obey to what he does.
 him and that what happens in europe and this is why we have these nations depart from god into agnosticism different modern philosophies post-christian this new age etc okay this is why people they they hate they they know god they most of them 99 know very well what the bible is all about okay what the church is all about the
 the catholic one or the protestant but they don't like it they don't really love it because you cannot love god like that and the reason is theology it's the theology of scholasticism which produced this blasphemy against god these are so so great this is this is a heresy which alienates god from people they don't know the true god the loving god they don't know about him they think that god is
 some hateful, angry, dangerous out there. So this is the other big problem. And it gives rise to wrong understanding of redemption. Because redemption becomes like schizophrenia with God. He is angry at men that they've done this sin. They sinned against him.
 But to be satisfied, he sends his own son and lets him suffer and be killed. And then he says, OK, now I'm fine. Now I am not angry. OK, this is so self-contradictory. OK, this is just nonsense. But these theologians, this is what they conclude. OK, it doesn't make sense.
 According to this idea, Christ died to satisfy God the Father. He died for him, for satisfying this angry God who was out there. And not because he loved us, not for us. He did not sacrifice himself for us, if we think about it. So this is wrong, brothers and sisters. This is wrong. This is wrong understanding of the mission of Christ, why he came, why he died.
 What did he accomplish? So no love, no love for Christ, no love for God, the Father, in those heretic congregations, confessions. So now, brothers and sisters, the third, the last one that I want to talk about now is the wrong understanding of the Holy Spirit. It's this addition that was added in the Creed by Catholics and song.
 filioque in Latin. That God, the Holy Spirit, that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. This and the Son is the addition that they added later, just themselves, without any ecumenical council, without asking anybody else, because they are the measure of all things, okay? The Pope said yes, so yes. So that addition was there, placed by devil.
 Both to split them out and to make them misunderstand the Holy Spirit. Have a heresy against the Holy Spirit. Okay? Because now they say Godfather, Godson. They emit together the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is actually love between them. They love each other. So they have Holy Spirit. This is their love among themselves. Okay? You cannot talk to love. Love is a feeling.
 cannot talk to love between two people. If you can talk to these people, but you cannot talk to the love between these two people. So this understanding of Holy Spirit is wrong. And this is why there is no Holy Spirit. Well, maybe it's the other way around. First, the Catholics, they did not have the experience, the real communication with the Holy Spirit. This is why they had this heresy.
 Heresy also led to more and more heresy, this created grace of God. Now they don't understand the grace. They think that the grace is any feeling, any special emotion, any some inspiration, anything. Now they receive this charismatic demon possession as the Holy Spirit, okay? Because they don't know what is real Holy Spirit is, what real Christ is. They don't know.
 this experience. They don't have the right asceticism. And this is why it cannot bring people to salvation, brothers and sisters. You need to understand. It's not about some minor differences. It's about yes or no. Your ship will drown or it will take you to where you need to go. So this misunderstanding of the Holy Spirit makes this communion of people outside
 of the Church of Christ, which is united by the Holy Spirit. So only some of these people, if they are humble, if they really seek God, maybe they have some approach to the Holy Spirit like the Old Testament times. But most of them, they're possessed by different spirits. 99% they're possessed by different spirits. You can see it in their bookshops or in their meetings.
 spiritual sessions, you can see that it's completely different spirit. You go to this Catholic mass, it's a different spirit. It's not spirit of God. It's unclean spirit which is behind all these things, brothers and sisters. We need to be honest to ourselves and to them when we talk to them and to talk about the differences that we have. If you love them, which is true love. The true love is you want health
 for the person you love. It's not that true love is you always say, no problem, no problem, you don't have any sickness. And then they just die. This is the fake love that the ecumenism is offering. This is the fake love that we saw in Turkey last week, two weeks ago, in the celebration of Constantinople, Patriarch and the Pope. This is the fake love. This is betrayal of Christ.
 faith of all these saints. This is it. This is the apostasy, brothers and sisters. So I really want you to see through, to understand well what is going on. Seek for truth. I'm not trying to pull you into the Orthodox Church like they are trying to just create a bigger organization. I don't care. We care about the people finding salvation, finding the truth, living in truth, being guided by the Holy Spirit,
 of christ this is what we preach this is what we do this testimony for and don't think that protestants are any better okay unfortunately the protestant confessions are even worse okay one big heresy creates many small heresies but these small heresies are even worse because okay they depart even further away okay they lose any spirituality any any any any
 I mean, healthy spirituality, they gain all kinds of worldly spirits. And every generation of these newly produced so-called churches becomes worse and worse and more and more perverted. May the Lord Jesus Christ be with all of us, brothers and sisters. May he guide us, may he fill us with his wisdom, with piety, with love towards each other.
 love towards God. Heresy does not give you love towards God. And then you don't have love among people. Neither among people of your so-called church, nor with other people. You don't have love towards people. That's why we have so many revolutions, wars, and everything else. May the Lord keep us. The true Christians are always very few. It's never all the whole country is Orthodox.
 It's always a very small minority of people who are truly faithful to Christ, who are truly seeking for the kingdom of God, who truly love God. May the Lord keep us in this love and help us do the testimony for His truth. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.
