 Dear brothers and sisters, from the gospel we can see that the Lord was surprised only in two things. Either in unbelief of people, when they did not believe in him, they did not want to follow him, and they were coming just to get the healing, just to get earthly benefits. Or he was also surprised by seeing the faith, the faith of some people.
 this is centurion, who came and who asked him to heal his servant. And when he was going to do that, he said, don't come to my house, just say a word and my servant will be healed. Okay. You don't have to come. You don't have to put your hands on top. You just say a word. And he said, even in Israel, I did not see such faith. And the Lord, when he said the prophecy about the end of times,
 So this topic of faith is central to the gospel. It's central to the teaching of the Lord. And today I want to show how this faith, how this faith is very different from what the Protestants are talking about when they say, okay, justification by faith.
 own disbelief is related to the end of this world, to the coming of Antichrist. And why also the coming of Antichrist is not going to be just a tragedy, just failure, but it will be the accomplishment. This is why we're talking about the chastisement, which will be done through the great tribulation or the great sorrow that will take place at the end of the world, which has begun already.
 Let us look at the epistle to Hebrews of St. Apostle Paul. This is chapter 11, verse 1. The Apostle gives us the definition of faith. He says, Now faith is the substance of things hoped for and the assurance in the things not seen. This definition is very powerful.
 nutshell that what faith is is the is what makes what is hope for real so for example you're told that there will be a resurrection if you have faith in in resurrection this faith will make this hope real okay real meaning bringing the fruits for you enabling you to rely on this truth
 When we have faith in the kingdom of God, in the coming of the Messiah. When we have faith in this, this gives it reality for us. Of course, it is objectively real. It is out there. But if we don't believe in that, if we don't have faith, it will have no effect to us. We will not be able to act upon this faith. We will not be able to become martyrs.
 Because the martyrs, they've forfeited anything for the resurrection, which they saw in front of them. For those treasures in the heavens, which we saw, which they saw in front of them, that they would get by being faithful to the Lord to the end. Okay? So, he said, if you have faith as a master, you will be moving mountains.
 Because this reality is much more powerful than this physical reality which is surrounding us. We are materialists and rationalists. We have no faith. We believe only what we can touch. This is the mammonistic, this world, this mindset of unbelief. But together with this, together with this power of faith, which can see things invisible, have full assurance in these things,
 the delusion, which is also something that is not seen, but which is brought to us as a fantasy by demons. And this is another way of replacing what for the human is this vision of God, vision of divine. It's replacing it with the vision of this illusion, with all kinds of utopia, which with the perfect future that he's drawing for us.
 When we are carnal, when we choose this world instead of the Lord's kingdom. Okay, so let us go step by step now. Okay. Before the first coming of the Lord, which is similar to the second coming. Okay, the first coming and the second, they are related. Okay, so what happened before the first coming of the Lord?
 coming of the Lord, you see, both the Jews and pagans, they got further and further away from God. And this is why they were not seeking the kingdom of God. They were seeking some substitution. They were seeking some substitution instead of that, some earthly kingdom.
 and theories and philosophies, okay? Be it in Greece or China or India, okay? All these teachers bringing their utopia for the world, for the perfect world. How is that related to faith? Well, this is related because if you don't see, if you don't perceive the divine kingdom, you want to replace it by earthly,
 kingdom by earthly paradise okay that happened with pagans and the similar things and much worse happened with the jews with his chosen people of god what happened with them well guess what they decided that the ideal the ultimate goal of this world is to have a earthly kingdom of israel
 kingdom and to have this Messiah who will have political power and overthrow all other kings and will bring them prosperity, health, etc. This was their fantasy. This was what they were craving for. That the Mammon perceived to them, persuaded them that this is the goal, this is the Messiah that they need.
 to crucify the true messiah who was sent to them by god so this was this fake earthly paradise this illusion brought by devil to them okay so the same things similar things are happening now okay nothing changed much okay the people are still mammonistic the people still choose mammon the devil has all same old tricks
 Okay? By deceiving people. And he tells them, okay, now I will give you prosperity. I will give you earthly salvation. Okay? In different shapes and forms. Be it some social utopia of bright future. Be it some capitalist utopia of high rising production cost and etc. Or technocratic utopia.
 capitalism, this neo-Marxist utopia. It could be anything like that, okay? And this is for the whole world. And if we look at what happens with the people of God, okay, we can also see this replacement taking place, okay? Well, we've seen how it worked with the Jews of those times of Christ, how they chose this earthly utopia to be their ideal, what they were craving for.
 And it got even much worse by today. With these people craving for Messiah. Going crazy to bring their Messiah to power. Okay. The Antichrist. But the similar things are happening in the people who consider themselves Christians. Okay. And this problem was already there in the times of Apostle Paul. Because this is why he wrote the epistle to the Hebrews. Okay. Why?
 were expecting the kingdom of God to come imminently, right away. After those persecutions, the Lord said, you will be persecuted. They were persecuted in Jerusalem and across the Roman Empire. All their properties were taken and stolen. You can read in Hebrews chapter 10. And then, where is the coming of Messiah? Messiah is not coming. So, maybe it's all fake. Maybe it's some far away.
 They lost hope. They lost faith. They were losing the faith. We should say they were shaking, okay? And Apostle Paul says, we are not among those who are shaking to the destruction. We are among those who stand in truth for the salvation. So, later, similar things were happening, okay? Because with the Pope, okay, with the Roman Church,
 Basically what they wanted is they wanted this worldly domination and power of Pope above all other monarchs and the spread of his power and influence over the whole world. Over the whole Church of Christ first and then over the whole world even politically. And this is why we have all those crusades and we have the destruction of Constantinople.
 Later we have these religious wars in Europe between the Latins, the Catholics and the Protestants, which were same mind, exactly the same. We need power, we need kingdom, then in this kingdom everybody will believe what we say, so we need to gain more kingdoms, okay? We need to fight to gain more land, because that's where this boundary is gonna end up.
 And then we have colonialism. We need to grasp new pieces of land to increase our earthly kingdom. This is what it comes down to. This is surrogate. This is substitute for the kingdom of God. Because people said, what kingdom of God? They did not say that. But this is what their heart was telling. It is much more sure if you just grasp this piece of land. You convert everybody there.
 into your faith, you teach them your language, and that's going to be part of you. This is a surga, this is fake, fake Christianity. Christianity which has no faith. Okay? And now coming to what is happening in the Orthodox Church. Because all this lack of belief we see even among the apostles. We see they were praying, they were asking, Lord, increase in us faith. They were lacking faith also. And the Lord said,
 this sinful and unbelieving generation, he was also talking about the apostles and his disciples. They also had unbelief. They were very weak in faith. And what kind of problems do we have in the Orthodox Church? We have these problems. In the smaller churches, we have this problem of nationalism, which is also this unbelief in a nutshell. Because these small churches,
 say, well, because of our nation, because, okay, we are a great nation, so success of our nation means success of our church, okay? This nation means this church, okay? We are, I don't know, Serbians, Bulgarians, Greeks, these relatively small churches, they have this idea that, okay, our nationality, our country is very fundamental, very important
 be a good, strong church, okay? So there is some hope in this national thing, okay? Which is lack of belief, lack of trust, because you don't see, you don't feel the kingdom of God, which is for you the kingdom, okay? And in the big church, like Russian church, okay, we have also big problem of unbelief, okay?
 of Moscow as the third Rome. Okay. That now, because we have this city, because we have this country, it has some blessing, some special blessing. So now we need to die for all this. We need to protect this. Because we have great vision, hope that here is the kingdom of heaven on earth. Okay. This is replacement. This is the same as the Jews were dying in the first,
 century for the promised land. Okay. They thought that God's blessing limitation is here. And by protecting these stones, these holy sacred stones, they can fulfill the kingdom, the will of God. And they were even killing the Christians who were against this idea. Okay. And they thought that they are serving God by doing that. Okay. And now with this new idea, this
 idea that, okay, you have some special piece of land which is holy, which is sacred, okay, this is the last stronghold, and just by protecting this with armor, we can bring the victory to God, okay? This completely earthly idea, okay, which gives some spirituality, some sacredness to the earthly stuff. So, this is unbelief, brothers and sisters. Even if it seems that, okay, people are
 willing to die for this. This is unbelief. Because in every sect you have people who are ready to die for some crazy idea. Because the devil, as I said, is producing illusions. This is another illusion, another phantom. Some people were ready to die for communism. Some people are ready to die for what? Liberty. Liberté. Egalité. Fraternité. All this fake democracy.
 slogans, Masonic, okay, godless. We have these other phantoms, which people are ready to die for, okay? All kinds of, okay, great, make America great again, okay? You name it, okay? They can make as many as you want. As long as you don't see the kingdom of God, you will follow along, okay? And with the modern AI capabilities, they will be able,
 To give some world, some illusion to everyone. It will be catered to you. And you will believe in that and you will be ready to die for that. So that is how the kingdom of Antichrist is coming. It's replacing the kingdom of God with something else. You don't have faith, so your fantasy, your fallen human nature will eat, will absorb that fake surrogacy.
 gate okay you will put all your hope and maybe you will sacrifice your life for that and eventually people will make antichrist their god so how is this related how is this related this is related directly brothers and sisters the unbelief is um bringing people to um this assuredness in this world if you cannot be assured in the words of god
 kingdom that he is promised. Then you want assurance in this world. You want help from your friends. You want economic stability. You want real estate. You want stable income. You want all kinds of stuff from this world. And the Antichrist will offer that at a cost. You need to sell your soul to him.
 also in the church this sick obsession about miracles some people are obsessed about miracles which I don't know which where can you see some some miracle you go for pilgrimage here and there and then you talk about these miracles you repost it in your social media because you want to see with your carnal eye something you don't have faith these miracles they're replacing faith
 This is why Antichrist will give all these miracles. The Lord was giving miracles only to prove his word. And not for the people to rely on those miracles. To expect miracles. To be crazy about miracles. To expect healings and feeding of thousands of people from nothing. Five breads.
 He's done miracles. But the Antichrist, he will give fake miracles because the people will be willing to get to see with their carnal eyes all these miracles. And he will give them this magic, this maga. And that will be the end, brothers and sisters. And that will be the final ultimate truth about their choice. That they chose the world. They rejected salvation.
 salvation. And this is why this world will end. Because everybody who chose Christ will be with Christ. And everybody who does not want him will be with Antichrist. And that's it. And no third choice. Nothing else. And we see how now, big time, this world is becoming the world of zombies. Through social media, through TV, through media, through fashion, through everything.
 Through technologies, through drugs, all kinds of addictions, through psychological problems. You're just becoming the world which is craving for Antichrist as their savior. And no matter whether you're liberal or you're conservative or you're Muslim or you're Christian, so-called, you will be there. Unless you have faith. Unless you can rely on Christ.
 him, he said, come and receive peace to your souls. All of you, these who are hardly laden with the work and all kinds of yokes and sorrows, come to me and you'll find peace to your souls in me. Not the peace of this world, which the world gives, but I give you true peace from the heavens.
 So, coming back to this review, I need to stress that the apostasy, which is happening with the heretics, with the sects, with these people who chose the whole doctrine, the whole direction, the whole spirituality to go after Antichrist, is different.
 It's not the same as the problems we have in the Orthodox Church. In the church, we have it, but it's a second-degree sickness again. And outside, in those heresies, it's a fourth degree. It's terminal, okay? All saints say that, for example, Catholics, they are completely in the... They're paralyzed. They completely lie in the embrace of Antichrist.
 single individual, we're talking about the overall thing. On the individual level, we have conversions. Many people, quite some people, are finding the truth. They convert, they find the truth, which is only in the Orthodox Church, despite the problems we have. So, let us see, brothers and sisters, this lack of belief, this apostasy.
 his word, we will lose all fear. You cannot live by his words. For example, he said, care first and foremost for the kingdom of heaven and everything else will be given to you. What to eat, what to drink, where to live, how to dress. Everything will be given to you if you put the kingdom of God first and foremost. And if you don't have faith, if you don't have assurance in this invisible, what kingdom of heaven? Where? He said, you will get it. Where will I get it from?
 So I become obsessed about earning money, about spending money. Because I don't have belief in him. I don't have faith. And also you see, brothers and sisters, from today's discussion, how different this is from the Protestant idea. That it's just some statement. You receive Christ as your personal savior. Do you believe in this? You believe. Okay, okay, okay. Now all your sins are forgiven. You're justified.
 Okay, alleluia. Okay, alleluia, alleluia. This is mental worshipping, brothers and sisters. You worship some idea in your brain, okay? It has nothing to do with faith, with the faith that the Lord is expecting from us, with the faith which is the gift of the Holy Spirit to us. No, it's a completely different thing. You have some statement in your brain, okay, do you believe in aliens? Yes. You don't believe? No, I don't believe.
 This is similar things. Do you believe in, I don't know, giants? In, I don't know, what else? Harry Potter? Okay, what do you believe? Oh, yes, I believe in aliens. Oh, yes, I believe that Jesus is the Savior. So what? So what? If you don't change fundamentally all your life, and you don't follow him, you don't take up your cross, and only with faith you can do that, okay, from day to day,
 Only with the faith can you live by Christ, can you trust in him, can you avoid any despondency, any loneliness, any other threats that are surrounding you. You can face all these sorrows only if you do have the faith in him and he is real and he lives in your heart. Only then can you win this situation.
 Only then can you inherit the kingdom of God. Because the apocalypse, the book of Revelation tells us that only to those who are winning will be given the wraths of glory. May we be among those few, brothers and sisters. May we be strengthened in faith so that we can do the testimony without any constraint, without any fear, without any reservation,
 in our testimony of his truth until the last breath. So the weaker the faith on earth, the more are the sicknesses. It's like immune system. The faith in you is your spiritual immune system. The weaker it is, the sooner you will be subject to heresies, to some mammonistic ways of life,
 of problems. It's as simple as that. And with the AI, as I said, the advance of the Antichrist is imminent. And it's happening not because of Elon Musk or Sam Altman or some innovations, Bill Gates. No. It's happening because people lose faith. Because they are believing in nonsense. They are believing in Antichrist.
 Calling themselves Christians. Blinded. Being blinded by heresy. It's very serious, brothers and sisters. Millions and billions of people are blinded today. May the Lord's grace, may His wisdom, may the true knowledge be with every one of you. And may the blessing be with all your beloved ones. So that nothing of those things which I've said
 harm them. Amen. God bless.
