 Dear brothers and sisters, we're approaching the Christmas, and during these fasting days, we think deeply about what does it mean to be truly a Christian. Apostle Paul, he says that we, Christians, have nothing, but we possess everything. What does this mean? And why the gospel is centered around this idea of controversy
 holy and what is of this world. Between the grace of the Lord and the desires and riches of this world, of this material world. There is this antagonism. And if we don't understand this principle and why there exists this antagonism, we won't understand anything. Okay? So, today I want to go deeply into this topic. And also,
 see how is this related to the modern problems, the modern issues of capitalism, socialism, New World Order. Because this is all related, okay? Because there are spiritual things behind the phenomena which is taking place in this world, especially now in the end of times that we live in. Okay, but first, let us see what the Apostle is saying. In 2 Corinthians,
 6.10. He says, this is a direct translation. We are wronged, yet we always rejoice. We are poor, yet we make many rich. We have nothing, and yet we possess everything. Especially today I want to focus on these two latter contradictions. What does it mean to be poor,
 yet, but make everyone rich. Not everyone, make many rich. To have nothing, yet possess everything. What does this mean? Is this some kind of rhetoric to catch attention, some kind of play of words? Well, no, brothers and sisters. This has spiritual significance, and it is so fundamental that if we don't have that, we don't understand, and we don't live by that, we are not
 So what does this mean? What does this mean? This means that through faith, we are called to unite with God. And in this union, we will look at everything through God's eyes. And how does the Lord see this material world? Well, the Lord can see it as belonging to him. Everything belongs to him.
 Can you think to say this is mine and this is mine, it's not yours, it's mine? No. And also, he doesn't value this as the ultimate goal, because for him the ultimate goal, the ultimate values are in spiritual, okay? They are in the kingdom of heaven, which he is preaching. It doesn't mean that this material world is meaningless, it's worthless, it's evil, like these agnostics, they say.
 But no, but it's inferior in its value. It is ultimately important because he himself comes to this world. But when we compare this to the spiritual, of course, the spiritual is much more important. And this material makes a difference when it serves the spiritual. It's subject to spiritual.
 to God, then, of course, you won't care so much. This is mine and this is yours. This piece of gold is mine and it's not yours, okay? Because for God, everything is his. Of course, that doesn't mean that now you go to the store and you get what you want, okay? You steal. Of course not, okay? And it doesn't also mean that we proclaim communism, okay?
 about it at the end. Okay, so first we need to understand that. We need to understand that it is the closer we are to God, the more we are perfect as he is perfect, okay? The more we live by his commandments, the more we take the cross and follow him. Through asceticism, we mortify our old man. And everything in this world doesn't appeal to us anymore.
 So much. Because he said, you don't love this world and whatever is in this world. And even your own life, if you don't hate it, you will not love the love with God your Father. Okay? This is Apostle Luke. This is even harsher. Okay? What does that mean? That means this life according to flesh. Life according to these worldly ideas. And everything was related to that.
 But people are catching on to this. People are grasping to this thing. This is mine, it's not yours. Property, etc. Selfishness, egoism, materialism, pragmatism. All this lack of love, lack of compassion. This greed. All of that comes from there.
 religious, in the church world, we have something even more strange than when people make spiritual things or religious things, they make them, okay, they emphasize possession, okay, I have this, this stone, it's from holy land, I have this and that, and this is special icon with this, this, I have many, many icons, okay, the more I have, the bigger blessing I have, or the bigger church I built, the better,
 Okay, and we are obsessed about material stuff. It's all inverted. I'm not saying that we don't need icons. We don't need, okay, holy relics. Of course we do. But it has to be a subject to the spiritual and not the other way around. But apparently this is what happens with many people and also on the level of church, okay, hierarchs. This is my jurisdiction. No, this is my jurisdiction. This is my piece of, okay,
 I have power here. No, that's my, I have power. It becomes this worldly stuff. And people think about what belongs to God as though it belongs to them. Okay. This worldliness, worldly mindset, it all comes from where? From lack of union with Christ. Okay. And all this, what I've talked about previously, that you have all this, my country, and I want a bigger, stronger,
 country because it's Orthodox country, etc. Okay, this is all inverted. This is all this heresy of Judaizers, okay, that makes some material things, okay, they catch God, okay, they are connected to God in some way like Vatican, okay, everything has to be linked to Vatican in order to be linked to Christ.
 What a crazy madness, okay? So we need to be free of all of that, brothers and sisters. And it comes not from explanation that I do, but it comes through spiritual life that we make this reality our union with Christ. If we possess his kingdom in our hearts, okay, we will see that everything else is so relative. We have it, we can use it for some time, okay?
 We don't have it. We lose it. It's okay. We're persecuted. We're rejoicing. Like Apostle Paul says. We're persecuted. We're offended. We're wronged. We rejoice. Because we follow the path of Christ. Okay? We don't have anything. Because, you know, you don't really think it's yours. Even if you have something right now in your possession, you don't really think it's yours. You don't really care how long you're going to possess that.
 In fact, you most likely won't be very rich. Why? Because you won't make it a desire, okay? You won't make it an idol, okay? Bigger savings, financial freedom, some material ownership. This is my idol. I worship him every day. I sacrifice all my heart, all my time, everything for this, for developing, I don't know, small business, career.
 something else, hoarding gold, I don't know, what people create, what kind of idols. Of course, if it's an idol and you worship and you might get more and more eventually, maybe yes, maybe no, maybe you'll fail. But many people, they succeed, okay? Because they are idol worshipers. We are pagans. The Lord said, it's the pagans who care only about that. So, and we see that big time in all those heresies, in the Vatican,
 This is what it's all about. Care what to eat, what to drink, what to dress in. And the kingdom of heaven will not run away. It will come also. It will follow. Okay. It's all inverted. Okay. Having said this, brothers and sisters, I really hope that we can understand that. Okay. We also need to know another big deceit. Okay.
 another side because this serpent he's winding okay he's going back and forth so when he when he is tired in making you okay look go after your you know greedy desires he tells you okay no you have to be altruist you have to be i don't know socialist communist okay everything is common
 Everything is common. And now, inclusive capitalism. You will have nothing and you will be happy. Okay? You will have nothing, be happy. What does that mean? That means that you won't be troubled so much by possess more, possess this. Why you will be happy? Because you will have everything that you need. You won't really need anything else. And also, you won't have all the troubles of ownership.
 Because if you own a house, okay, you need to pay for rent. Sorry, you need to pay for, I don't know, insurance. You need to worry about not having it burned. Okay, you have to care about many, many things. Okay, maintenance. Also, you cannot really travel from place to place. You stick to this house. Okay, but then no responsibility. Rent, you rent. Okay, affordable, cheap,
 Okay. You don't need to worry. You don't need to worry. You always can rent. You have enough income to rent anytime, anywhere you want. Okay. No responsibility. Just enjoy your life. Okay. And everything else. Rent car, rent umbrella. Not rent car. Car sharing. Okay. Becomes more and more popular. Okay. And everything else. Everything else. Clothes. I don't know. Anything you want will be given to you. Okay.
 As much as you want. So there is no need anymore. I don't eat 10 breakfasts a day. I just need one breakfast a day. I don't need 10, 20. So this is possible. This can be reached through what? Well, it's not only economic. It's not only economic because it has to give you that happiness.
 satisfaction. And that can be given if the place of God is taken by someone else. If you have another God who gives you, who lives in you, who gives you meaning, who gives you joy, satisfaction, who gives you your understanding of everything. And that can be done eventually to everyone. And we know who that God is going to be. That's the prince of this world. It's the Antichrist.
 This is going to be achieved through technology, through AI, through ideology. Like we remember, like everyone loved Hitler, Stalin or whatever. Most people loved him, loved them. And they were satisfied. They were ready to go to war, to die for those things, for Reich and Führer. Okay, we go and we die. No, no problem. Of course, that meant that it's God. They worship this stuff.
 examples plenty of them okay you'll tell me now we won't have hitler and stalin now people are smart are they are you sure how everybody believed that you have to do this to save the world and that everybody who doesn't do this they will be okay enemies of the humanity okay the villains and the worst people on earth and you need uh annihilate them okay that kind of spirit
 what i'm talking about okay and it was just a little rehearsal so it's very much possible brothers and sisters through ideology what else through drugs pharmacy maybe genetic engineering maybe will help them achieve that maybe some neurocell stuff okay it could be many many different things not only economy not only this minimal income or i don't know some
 sharing economy or something like that. Okay, so eventually it will be the deceit, the prelice, what we call. You know, sometimes you see people who are crazy, okay, and they are happy, they are smiling. You don't understand why they're smiling, but they are smiling. And not only crazy people, okay, we see it in just regular people quite often. He's happy, Balsam, he's smiling, he's laughing. Why? You ask him why? What's going on?
 to explain this is a prelist okay this is some kind of delusion that a person can slip into psychological spiritual okay you name it but that's quite possible okay that's quite possible on individual level and on social and global levels okay and of course this idea that somebody takes your responsibility on themselves is so
 appealing brothers and sisters it's amazing that's what with the pope okay that's how he deceived all these western christians because they came to him and said oh how can we go to the to fight okay in these crusades we will kill so many people muslims orthodox will be killing them he said don't you worry because i will take upon all the responsibilities go kill and some said well
 We have family. We don't go. We don't kill. Okay, just bring money. Okay, just buy this indulgence. Okay, just that's enough. Okay, I will take care of that. Just a little cash and the problem is fixed. Don't worry. And people bought into that craze. Okay, and that was a thousand years ago and much more now. If you take away people's responsibility, people's worries, you stop the war.
 you end the economic crisis, you provide them with this, with that, no frustration anymore, okay? No problems, family-wise, okay? Suppose you can solve most of these problems, they will be yours, they will worship you. So this is the idea, okay? This is the goal of the Antichrist. And we can see how much this is different from the Christian. From the Christian,
 Because we don't belong to this world. We are in the spiritual already, okay? We are linked to spiritual, so this material, we don't belong to it. It's logic, it's desires, they are not attracting us anymore. That's it. And this is why Marx hated Christianity more than anything else. Because it did not work in his model. His model needed people who are, okay, worldly.
 who are materialistic. Maybe not in their beliefs, but in their behavior, in their values. He needed that kind of people. So first, destroy the church. And that was what they've done in Russia. First, before anything else, destroy the church, destroy faith, and then the people will be yours. And this is what it is right now. Despite all this fake
 fake claims that we have restored. Orthodoxy. No. So, that will be the greatest joy for this fallen world. We need to be aware of that, brothers and sisters. We need to be aware that neither capitalism nor communism is going to save us. It's only Christ and only living in him, with him, can make us immune to those delusions
 to make us true Christians, to be able to live by the commandments of Christ, and to be what the Apostle is telling us we should be, we're supposed to be as Christians, and not this fake Christianity that we find everywhere. May the Lord give us His blessing, this joy. The last thing I wanted to tell you, if you're still with me, is that some people ask me,
 Christmas. I'm recording this, it's exactly the Catholic Christmas time, December 25th. Well, some people say, it doesn't matter, two Christmas. Because we know some Orthodox churches, unfortunately, they celebrate together with Catholics and Protestants. Okay, the same day, not together, but at the same day. And people say, well, it's good, just celebrate two times.
 it's even better. Okay, you celebrate once, then after 13 days you celebrate one more time. No problem. Okay, but in reality, brothers and sisters, this is the greatest harm that is done to the church in recent times. Okay, because we have some churches that they choose to have this great feast, this great celebration of the Lord's nativity at the same day
 the heretics. Because majority around is heretics. They live in those countries where many heretics, Catholics, Protestants. We want to have same time. And they don't care about the rest of Orthodox who are not going to change, who were not going to change. Who cares? Who cares about those Orthodox? We want to change. We want to be at the same day with the Catholics.
 And they went and they changed the calendar. And now we have in one church, within one church, we have two Christmas celebrations. This is the most shameful thing that can be. In some cities now, let's say you go some European, Paris, okay? On one street, you will have a Greek church celebrating today on the 25th, joy celebration, okay? But on the next street,
 You have Russian church where people are fasting, which are people are in solemn preparation for Christmas, which is coming in almost two weeks time. Is this one church? I mean, is this how it's supposed to be in one church? We're talking that we are one holy Catholic and apostolic church and we have this nonsense. Why? I'll tell you why. Because of worldliness. Because of these workers of darkness,
 working within the church and bringing this to fruition. And they are successful because most of the people do not care and they follow along. So it's not just a problem of this Miletius Metaxarchus, this mason who's changed it, who's got to become a patriarch of Constantinople in 1920s. And he brought all of those things, not because of him only,
 Because people don't care. If people would say, no, we don't want to do that. Why we should do that? All of those things would fail. So this is a problem on different levels of church hierarchy. That do not care about truly being one, being united, being with Christ. And they're not immune against this spirit of this world, which says, oh, just celebrate together. Catholics celebrate.
 Why not celebrate? So it's paving way. Immediately it's paving way for that one world religion, which will suck into itself as many people as possible, including many Orthodox. Okay, so let us be aware of that, brothers and sisters. So today, personally, I don't have any joy. Some people say we have joy because today some have Christmas, some don't have Christmas. I don't have joy today. Sorry. Okay.
 Not because we cannot celebrate Christmas every day, okay? Not just twice a year, but we can celebrate it every year. It's not about that. It's about what is dividing the Orthodox Church. And why do we have to divide from within? Every house which is divided from within will not stand, it will fail. The Lord said himself, okay? So let us see this not as an extra opportunity to celebrate,
 to be loyal to the Christ's commandment, to the Christ's prayer that be you one. May the Lord help all of us. We're not judging anyone. We pray for everyone. We love everyone. But we detest the surrender to the world. We detest heresy. We detest ecumenism and creation of this one world.
 apostatic pseudo church the synagogue of antichrist okay i mean god bless brothers and sisters and may the lord bless our fasting for these remaining days of the land and may every one of you have a blessed new year's eve i mean
