 Dear brothers and sisters, today I want to wish you all Happy New Year. I want to thank God for everything that was done, for all His blessings to us in this year which has passed, and to ask for the blessings for all of us in this new year 2026. We need to think about the meaning of this new year to a Christian.
 We will see that the problem is not the celebration of a new year. But the problem is celebrating it now. Celebrating it on January the 1st. And the problem is not the date. The problem is why it became January the 1st. And we will see that not only the New Year's, but also the Christmas, which seems to be so close.
 to the New Year's, why the way we celebrate these things, both in the West and in the so-called Orthodox countries. I'm not talking about the church. I'm talking about the general public. Why is it deeply gnostic? Why is it carrying this spirit of Antichrist, the spirit of prince of this world? It is very subtle, but it's amazing.
 how celebration of seemingly Christian event, the nativity of Christ, how it became reprogrammed. Reprogrammed into something which brings the mindset of Antichrist. It's amazing, brothers and sisters, how everything can be perverted by the devil.
 is seeking for Antichrist, where there is none, okay? And some people will say, "Father, what are you talking about? We have a good time, we celebrate. Why are you talking again about some darkness, about some fears, apocalypse, et cetera?" Maybe it's just sickness, okay? You need to be much more positive about things which are happening. Okay, well, brothers and sisters, I am putting my trust in the Lord,
 in anything else, okay? And today I want to share with you some of my discoveries regarding the celebration of the New Year's and regarding Christmas somewhat, but mainly I'll focus on the New Year and the traditions which are related to it, both in the West and in the so-called Orthodox countries, okay? About the Christmas tree, okay? Some subscriber last time
 told me that, okay, you have pagan stuff in the church, what a misery, okay, what a shame. Okay, I'll explain that it's nothing, it has nothing to do with paganism, okay, that it's a Christian, completely Christian tradition, okay, and it can be used in a pagan way, okay, anything can be perverted to become pagan, to become pagan, okay, but let's go step by step, okay, I'll leave it to the end.
 about the New Year's. And the problem of the New Year and the problem of the calendar, the whole topic of calendar is related about imposing some set of values, some set of world view and your perception of time, your place in time, your understanding of time.
 upon you upon the world okay if you're a ruler if you rule the calendar if you rule this you can influence the mindset and brothers and sisters you will see after such thorough analysis well today we just gonna indicate some things we won't do a super thorough analysis okay but many things will be brought to light after doing such an analysis you see how deeply you are
 from your childhood with things that you were not conscious of into thinking in a certain way, okay? In becoming the so-called modern man, post-modern man, post-Christian man, okay? Into becoming eventually this fertile soil for the kingdom of Antichrist, eventually, okay? But let us go step by step to see, okay? Because we, as Christians, we have the commandment
 to be in this world, but not to belong to this world, okay? And we will see that this calendar is trying to reprogram us and to put us into its agenda, into its way of thinking, okay? And even when you look at how Christians, Orthodox Christians, celebrate the New Year's, what they're wishing to each other on this New Year's, you will see that it's completely anti-Christian, and people do not even notice that, okay?
 Let's go step by step. If you go to some so-called Orthodox places, Russia, Ukraine, you will see that for most people, New Year's is much more important than Christmas and Pascha, Easter. It's crazy. With all this pagan stuff, with this frost, this uncle frost.
 et cetera, grandpa Frost, and all those, it's worse than Santa Claus. Okay, well, that came from the time of Stalin, okay, I'll tell you. From the time when they were killing priests and bishops, okay, massively, by hundreds of thousands, by millions, and at the same time in 1930s, 35, 36, 37, that's when they've introduced
 New Year celebrations with all that stuff to Russia. Which is until now we have. And it becomes bigger and bigger year by year. So this is really satanist reprogramming. Like recent. This religion of Babylon through these Bolsheviks grasped its claws into the heart of Russians. And it's still there now. But let us go from the beginning.
 First, this celebration of the new year, there is nothing wrong with that. It was from ancient times, different civilizations, they've celebrated. We have it in Babylon, in Sumer culture, in the Middle East, in the ancient Iran, Persia. There it was celebrated, usually in March, in the beginning of March, in the end of March.
 In Egypt, it was celebrated in the summer because of the Nile, okay? This cycle, harvesting cycle, okay? Celebrating it in spring makes sense because it's new life, okay? After winter, the nature is waking up, okay? And you have New Year coming, okay? In ancient Israel, it was celebrated in September, okay?
 have until now Rosh Hashanah, this feast, the beginning of the year. And it was accepted like this into the church, okay? Because the new church is the new Israel, and some of these forms were taken from the old Israel, and it was celebrated in the September 1st, okay? We know in Israel it's a moon calendar, it's not a solar calendar, okay? But for us, we took
 the solar calendar, the church, okay? Today we have, it's called Indiction. It's called, it's Gregorian calendar is the September 14th that we begin the church new calendar, which is a Julian calendar is September the 1st. And it was related to the beginning of the preaching of Christ, okay? Traditionalists believe that his teaching began
 autumn, okay, Luke in chapter, okay, in Luke, you remember when he came to synagogue and opened the book and he started reading, it was related, traditionally understood as the beginning of the preaching of the Lord.
 Chapter 4, 16 to 21. And also ending of the harvest. Also you reap all the harvest and now you need to do taxation. Also had practical reasons. Began this new year in Israel. In the Rome, in ancient Rome, the new year began
 began also in March 1st, all the way until 153 BC. And then it was moved to January the 1st. The previous celebration, March 1st, it was related more not to the harvest, but to the war, okay? It was the new war period. We know that Roman Empire was all about war.
 And that was the new period, the new period of wars. So the consuls, they came, they had council, and they decided, okay, now we've got to march, we can go to Africa or where, okay, wage war. But one time they had to begin the war earlier. And so they moved it two months earlier. It's new consuls, new meeting, new decisions were made earlier.
 earlier in January the 1st, and it just stayed that way. And later Julius the Caesar in 46 BC, he made it official beginning of the year. And it became administrative and military and bureaucratic, everything was tied to January the 1st. But that was a long time ago, more than 2000 years. And it was moved to January the 1st mainly because of those reasons,
 administrative, military, government reasons. Well, human reasons, you can put it that way. This humanism, this ancient humanism expressed itself in that way. But we manage, we manage how we count time. And this is the spirit of modernism that was revived and big time and which brought
 the whole Europe, Western world first, and then the whole world by now, almost everywhere, to moving everything to January the 1st. Okay. But before going into that, let us just say a few words about the church. Because for the church, it was never that way. The church never submitted to the secular calendar. The church from ancient time,
 showed explicitly that it has its own calendar. And this is why we have Pascha, which is moving all the time and other feasts. Okay, it says we are independent. Okay, we are independent of your calendar. You guys, secular world, you can run whatever you want, but we have our calendar. Okay, so this spirit of being free, being in this world, but not subject to this world is in the calendar.
 into the calendar, into the conscience of the church. But secularism is trying to break all of that. Why for the church? The church chose September 1st as the beginning of the year. Well, first, as I said, it was a continuation of the Old Testament tradition. But also because Pascha is the main
 Feast for the church. And the new cycle of Pascha begins in September. Okay, so the calendar of the church is the cycle of the history of redemption, the history of salvation, which is going over and over. And circular understanding of time. This is the church understanding, circular understanding. And this is why all the feasts, they are coming, okay, they are
 if you want, to Pascha. Okay, they're passing after Pascha. Okay, we have these feasts going all the way to the beginning of September. And then we switch and the new set of feasts is now coming from the beginning of Salvation. And we see that the first feast that we have in September is the, one of the big feasts is the
 nativity of the Holy Theotokos, okay? Which is opening the New Testament period, okay? From coming to this world of Mother of Christ begins the New Testament, okay? And the new period of salvation begins, and now we are already walking towards next Pascha. So for the church, this is why we have, it's September the 1st, okay?
 Gregorian calendar is September 14th. This is the new year called Indiction. And it was fixed like that as early as 6th, 7th century. Now, in Europe, in Western world, there were different times of celebrating the new year. During the Middle Ages, let's say. In the Middle Ages, it was sometimes,
 December 24th, 25th, like Christmas time, sometimes March 25th, sometimes some other date. It could be a different date. You can do some research on that if you want. But after the Reformation in the 16th century, with this spirit of Renaissance and this beginning of modernism, you can say,
 This is going to change. Okay. And the monarchs of Europe are switching one by one, switching to January the 1st. Okay. And we have this modernist popes like Gregory the 1st, who says, oh, now we have more scientific calendar. So we need this calendar reform. Okay. In 1582, they've changed this calendar to Gregorian calendar. More scientific.
 more objective, more human understood, more controlled. The spirit of modernism is coming. And now they say, okay, now January 1st represents what? Represents that it's not God who gives us calendar or nature. We observe some cycles, harvests or so. No, we ourselves decide and we decide that it's convenient to do it on January 1st.
 above everything we humans we are rationalistic we're scientific we're uh whatever smart so it's us you be like gods okay this spirit of modernism spirit of antichrist is getting itself manifested making itself manifested in switching everywhere to january the first it is a very artificial
 is always the same. That we have year after year, year after year. Again, we can compare these years. This year, previous year, how many percentage, growth, etc., etc. We control, we measure. This spirit, I want people to feel that. And that there is always improvement. It's always growing. There is progress. This idea of progress. The bright future.
 and bright future. We are developing, okay, the whole idea of evolution. It's all coming together, brothers and sisters. It's all the spirit of Gnosticism, progressism, okay, and this proudness, blasphemy, the spirit of Antichrist. What is blasphemy? Blasphemy is, say, man control everything. Not God. Man does control everything. Okay?
 And it changes. And then Peter the Great, not the great, he's not great, okay, in Russia. Peter the Reformer, Peter the anti-tradition, okay? Peter the anti-church guy. Okay, this guy, this emperor, he comes, he breaks everything what he can break in Russia, okay, in terms of tradition, in terms of
 gay church, in terms of people. And he introduces, of course, January the 1st. And many other stuff he's introduced. And this modernist monarch is bringing this spirit of rationalism, modernism, anti-tradition, is bringing it to Russia, to this Orthodox country.
 of apostasy. Of course, people were able to embrace it. Well, not everybody embraced it, but the elite embraced that. And it was a big gap between the elite and the people in Russia all this time until the revolution. And it paved the way for Lenin and Bolsheviks and Stalin who came later, who were even greater revolutionaries and anti-Christians.
 So there is nothing holy about calendar now. It's just secular. It's just subjective. It's us humans who made it January the 1st. We challenge God. We are greater than God. The blasphemy. And we destroy everything which was in the past. So now it's very much proclaimed. You just burn away everything that was in the last year. Just burn it away. Start from scratch. Start from new.
 This is also agnostic. Killing the tradition. Perestroika in Russia we have. The Great Reset. The Great Reset every year. So the history is linear. It's progress somewhere. This is very agnostic. So this was prepared in Europe through Protestantism. And Protestantism was just born by Catholicism.
 was a little bit reactionary yet. So Protestants just went through and they said, no, we don't need anything secular. We don't need any rituals related to calendar. We just have secular calendar. There was a cultural background for receiving, accepting this 1st January everywhere. So now, brothers and sisters, what can we tell Evaldi
 other traditions, like Christmas tree, for example, which we have. If you go to Russia, Ukraine, you'll see that it's the Christmas tree, which is, it's not Christmas, it's not called Christmas tree, it's called New Year's tree, okay? It's associated with people's mind only with New Year's, not with Christmas, okay? And that is production by Stalin and these early Bolsheviks, which is Satanism, okay?
 it's also related to modernism and postmodernism and romanticism. Because the Western world departed from Christ a long time ago. And this departure brought new sicknesses. The one of big sickness was modernism. But later it was kind of too cold. Industry, production, machinery, science,
 mathematics, people wanted something warm and something family kind of stuff. And it was a recoil after that, which produced this romanticism and now, okay, family gathering this music and these lights and these fairy tales with this Santa Claus and all these things. And it produced this some kind of warm feeling, okay, and people decide, okay, this is what we need.
 actually it was not related to church this tradition by itself you know to have this Christmas trees everywhere on big plazas in towns and some performances okay but as we see for example when the first world war began okay everybody was celebrating Christmas but when you
 Against your great friends. And these are guys against your great Germany. Just they went and they killed each other. Massively. Because for them it was just some game. Christmas was nothing. So they killed each other. Big time on Christmas. There was one attempt to reconcile. On the Christmas. But then it was spoiled. And people were massively killing each other. Because all of that is synthetic. Brothers and sisters. Romanticism is not true love.
 It always is artificial. So all these romantic feelings about Christmas, it will evaporate. And we see now how it evaporates as soon as it's over. People are switching from Halloween to Christmas and Christmas to Valentine's, etc. Here we're switching in Taiwan. Everybody's switching to Chinese New Year.
 Okay, and... But so why Christmas tree here in our church? Well, because in the ancient time, it was first in the church. Of course, there was pagan tradition also, which is even more ancient, okay? Pagan tradition with all these spruce and other, you know, green trees, which are staying green in the winter. Pagans, of course, also saw this phenomenon,
 and they have life during winter, and they had some special traditions. But for the church, it's not because of paganism. For the church, it was also symbol of life, that despite winter, Christ is bringing life. So it symbolizes the hope for life and resurrection, salvation, which is brought by Christ. And it's reminding of the paradise and the tree of the paradise,
 both the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. The tree of life, it brings the Holy Communion. It's the cross. The tree of knowledge of good and evil was supposed to help people growing in Christ, but they failed, they've eaten that fruit, but it's because they failed, Christ now comes and saves us. So it's all about the expectation of Christ.
 Christ is coming because of, we've seen back then, we've fallen off, fallen away, and now we're waiting for him to come, to be born, and to save us. And now we see this tradition is as early as 6th century on the holy icons. We see these green branches and, you know, these trees,
 and other trees which are always green, they were used as a symbol of life from ancient time in the church. And even in Hagia Sophia, we have decorations from these trees. It was Christmas tree of that time.
 they had a charter which said how have you decorate you have to decorate your altars your churches with these christmas trees on christmas and on easter pascha and at that time people didn't have it at home people didn't have it on the streets okay it was only in the church and later we see it appearing on the you know in the towns and you know
 on these plazas and in people's houses eventually in the 19th century. But now people come and say, oh, guys, you see Christmas trees outside and you bring it to the church. This is blasphemy. People don't know history. They don't want to learn. They don't want to understand. They have so much negative stuff in themselves. Whatever they see, they have negative criticism. So today I wanted to clarify these things.
 be aware of this leaven of blasphemy, leaven of this prince of this world, which is trying to reprogram everything. He wants to give us surrogate, surrogate of Christmas, surrogate of nativity, surrogate of salvation. He cannot directly cancel Christmas and introduce some satanism worship.
 but he can try to eat it from inside and give it new meaning, new spirit, etc. And this is why people celebrate Christmas, but they don't come closer to Christ. They don't come to repentance. They don't come to the search for truth. They remain blinded. May the Lord give us humbleness.
 Give us wisdom. Give us salvation. Help us avoid all kinds of deceit by the devil. We have to have this armor of faith, okay, which will overthrow any lie of the devil. There are so many lies out there. May the Lord help us and keep us away from all of this. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters.
 Christ this week and I will do another Christmas stream, Christmas video soon after Christmas celebration. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
