 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas. The Holy Church celebrates the coming of the Messiah to this world, beginning of the new era, the era of salvation, the era of grace, the era of peace. Preceding this era, there was this period of preparation, the period of harsh trial, which is represented by these 42 generations.
 42 generations from Abraham till Jesus, which symbolize, which signify this trial, this trial that mankind has to go through, has to go through to reach salvation. In the same way as there were 40 years in the desert, and only two people entered into the promised land, and everybody else were left in the desert,
 In the same way, the people of Israel mostly fell off and very few came and entered into this new divine life of the resurrected Messiah. And now we are in this new era of preparation. Every fulfillment becomes the next stage of preparation. So now we are waiting for the second coming of the Messiah.
 And we are going through trials. And today I want to say a few words about this preparation and how important to us is this coming. Why do we celebrate Christmas and why everything is Christ-centered in our life?
 coming of the lord even though there is a discrepancy over a few years the whole history of mankind it's all divided into pre-christ and after christ and we see that the whole civilization the development is mainly stemming out of these peoples which received christ at some point okay the whole development of
 philosophy, of science, of society, is all connected first and foremost to the coming of Christ, to this new era. And moreover, the globalization, the whole phenomenon, we see how it's tied into the apocalypse, how it's tied into the universality of the church.
 and where is Antichrist, let us go step by step, brothers and sisters. Because today we will dig into this mystery of how Christ and Antichrist are linked. Even though there is nothing in common between God and devil, there is nothing in common between Lucifer and the Redeemer, the Savior, between the darkness and the light.
 There is something going on here. We see the role of Judas in killing Christ. We see the role of these Pharisees and Sadducees. These leaders who've betrayed, who've condemned Christ and asked these pagans to crucify him. We see that there is some kind of relationship. And we see that the Antichrist is coming right before Christ.
 We wonder if the new era is the era of the Messiah of Christ or it's the era of Antichrist. There is also quite a lot of confusion about that. And the final triumph, is it the triumph of Christ or is it the triumph of Antichrist? Of the end times. To understand this, let us think deeply about the significance of this number 42.
 symbology, which it represents, okay, and where we see 42, we see 40, okay, for example, we see that the great land is 42 days, but there are two days which sort of fall out, so we have 40, and we call it the 40-day land, okay, the koresma, and on tesarakosti, okay, in Greek, and
 We can begin from the Old Testament. We begin from the Old Testament and we will end in the book of Revelation. And at the end, I will draw some conclusions of what is the significance. Why 42? Why 40? But we remember before Christmas, this Sunday before Christmas, we read about these generations that there are 42 generations from Adam to Christ.
 divided into three times 14. 14 times three. Okay, from Adam to David, from David to Babylon, from exile to Babylon, and then from the exile till Christ. Okay, so we have 42 generations. Christ is the 42nd generation from Abraham. Okay. Well, what happened?
 in the old testament okay in the old testament the symbology of 40 is quite numerous okay but we won't go into all of the cases where it appears but let us see what happened in the exile okay in the exile we have 40 years in exile you can imagine the lord is bringing these people out of slavery from egypt from this bondage but all of them die in the desert brothers and sisters isn't that cruel
 Why? We know why. It's explicit, okay, in the Bible, because of their complaints. It is because they were complaining. They did not have trust in the Lord, did not have faith. This is giving us a good lesson, okay, brothers and sisters. If we will be among those who are complaining, who always judge others, who always say it's because someone, I have this, I have that problem,
 be among those who die in the desert okay so this is uh some kind of um strange uh wandering okay we have this uh 42 days they we have we have um 40 days of fasting for uh moses you if you fasted 40 days okay before receiving this uh covenant entering
 into this covenant with God. And we have 40 days of fasting of the prophet Elijah. And we have prophet Jonah who told to these Ninevites, okay, these citizens of Nineveh, that after 40 days this city will be destroyed. After 40 days. And it was destroyed. It was not destroyed, okay, but it was 40 days. 40 days of preparation.
 40 days of the Lord's trial that they had to go through. But they repented. So unlike those who died in Israel, they entered into life. Their lives were preserved. And then we are coming to the New Testament. And we see how the Lord is tested. He is going through this trial.
 He becomes man. He comes to this world. And men have to be tested. This is a law. So he has to be tested also. 40 days of temptation in the desert, tempted by the devil. And he overthrows the devil. And then he enters into his ministry. And then he tells to his disciples. He tells to those of Pharisees who come and ask, why your disciples don't fast?
 He tells them that they will be fasting. Not now, when the groom is with them, but when the groom will be taken, these sons of the bridal chamber, they will fast. And what is this taking of the bridegroom? When was Christ taken from the church? He was taken when he died on the cross, all through until his resurrection on the third day.
 when we count it it comes to 42 hours so the earliest great land was the 42 hours of complete fasting abstaining from any food or drink for 42 hours okay and it's later it became 40 days of uh of fasting okay so this uh we see from the earliest
 church okay that uh also there is this uh um this 42 this number comes and then we see in the book of revelation brothers and sisters in the book of revelation we see this number appearing at least three times okay twice in chapter 11 okay that one time it's 42 months 42 months when the temple of god will be given over to the
 pagans okay and it's telling us about the outer yard of the temple you know the Lord says don't measure it because it will be given over to the pagans and in one of my previous videos I've mentioned that this outer yard means those Christians including Orthodox it's pretty much about Orthodox okay who are just baptized but they are not
 bringing this sacrifice into the temple they are not sacrificing themselves they are not changing their lives they're not repenting they come once in a while to put a candle or now during the christmas service come just because it's christmas some tradition tasty food and then they are gone this is this is it brothers and sisters so this is something
 that we don't want okay we don't want to lose our lord okay for 42 days trampled by the pagans so now we some people they care so much about how many orthodox there are how many catholics how many protestants but the lord said don't count it as long as it's not in my temple
 pagans there is a same with pagans this is what's going on brothers and sisters most orthodox also become like pagans okay don't be surprised when you see that and don't excuse yourselves if you see something like that don't excuse yourselves for being also like that because you won't be counted also none of us will be excused because someone else is doing a lousy job being a christian okay so then uh in the book of revelation also
 the same thing appears in the days it says 1260 days which is 42 months and which is three and a half years so three and a half years of course it's symbology some people say oh antichrist comes for three and a half years well no we don't know okay but it will be limited amount of time it's half of seven and it also represents this 42 okay so we can say the 42 is the time when
 Christ has power, when devil has power. And in the Old Testament, it was also the time when devil had special power, okay? And the Lord came to chase him out. But people have to be willing to do that, okay? So we have also in chapter 13, verse five, Revelation, that the beast will have complete power over all nations,
 for 42 months after he will win the war with the saints. So that will be a time of tribulation. Okay, so these 42 is symbolic of tribulation, brothers and sisters. It's a symbolic of these tough times that the church has to go through. Okay, it's a time when men have to go
 ascend and transform okay in the desert they had to go through so that the new generation can inherit the the the earth the promised land okay so 42 is a limited amount of time it's limited amount of time it's uh it's a limit if you will like uh
 Three and a half, seven is fullness, but three and a half is limit, is limited. This is why we need patience, okay? We need patience and we will go through. And this is why now in Christmas, we are especially thankful that the Lord has given us this joy that we have suffered through. We've gone through these 40 days of preparation and we've focused on Him in all this longing and expectation of His deliverance.
 that he delivers us from this slavery, from this bondage. And this is what we celebrate, brothers and sisters. Now we need to appreciate the depth of what is happening, what it signifies. The Lord's coming, Christmas. And the working of the evil during this time. He can do things.
 final, decisive victory of God over all these final and total and ultimate victory of God and this fulfillment of God's plan. So the God's plan has to unfold in these 42 days, 42 months, 42 generations. And also 42 is six by seven. Six is man, it's a human.
 And seven is divine. So the human struggle has divine meaning. And this is the history of the people of God. First in the Old Testament and now in the New Testament. It is always effort and love of humans and our struggle with all the evil. And it has the divine purpose. It's not just in this world, but it does have a divine purpose.
 And the Antichrist, he will just say, no, 666. There is no divine purpose. Only this world. Be materialists. Be hedonists. Enjoy yourself. Don't worry about God. There is no God. You are your own God. And now create one man-made God in AI.
 optimists okay they want to create human god this is what we are going into brothers and sisters this world of antichrist which is coming we need to understand what's going on brothers and sisters on spiritual level the lord allows this to happen this great temptation this great trial that is approaching that we are already in this is what it is okay only with christ can we be saved and we can be victorious
 Okay, everything starts to make sense. Everything is going on in this world. How closely all this is related to our salvation and our testimony for Christ. So we see as there were six days of creation and then day of rest. In the same way, there were 42. That's six weeks.
 before coming of Christ. And he begins this seventh week, the seventh week of salvation, which we are in now. He is God's peace. On the seventh day, the Lord, he created the world, he had rest. So now he is the rest. So this seventh week begins, begins with his coming, with Christmas. Let us feel, let us be grateful to the Lord
 this seventh week that he gives to us and bring testimony to his name and we know that our limited union with god it's not completely full is because we also have to go through this 42 days hours months generations of trial of ascension it all makes sense it's not the world is not meaningless okay it's not just uh
 just you know wandering in the desert yes most people are wandering in the desert but not us as Apostle Paul says we're not among those who are shaking who are who are shaking to perdition but we are those who are standing in faith for salvation may the Lord give joy to all of you and give salvation to us and may his coming for us give us strong ground and assurance
 in His imminent Second Coming, which we are all craving and expecting soon. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters, and Merry Christmas.
