 Dear brothers and sisters, Merry Christmas! From January 7th all the way till Epiphany, we celebrate the Holy Christmas, the Nativity of Christ. In the ancient times, the Nativity and Epiphany was one feast. Later it was split into two feasts. And during this holy time, there is no Lent, even on Wednesdays and Fridays.
 world however for many christians many orthodox this becomes the time when we are relaxed spiritually we lose vigilance we lose this feeling that there is something wrong with ourselves and with this world okay we may be in this euphoria okay very pessimist very optimistic okay
 view on everything and we may lose this boundary which we need to be vigilant of this boundary between christian and non-christian okay and today i want to tell you some thoughts on the
 is in order to not to slip into the whole delusion of this world. This topic I often raise. And today I want to share with you some insights that I have recently from reading the scripture and from experiencing the Christmas. Well, first of all, the Apostle Paul in Galatians 2.20, he tells us
 that I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. So, Apostle Paul was crucified with Christ. What does it mean? And now he has Christ living in him. And he doesn't live with. It's Christ living in him. Okay, for most people, most people, Christians, this is just a nice slogan.
 Christ in me. Yes. Okay. But this doesn't mean anything. It's not real to them. Okay. Because we ask, are you crucified? Have you been crucified? Of course I have. Okay. I was baptized. That's when it happened. Okay. Sorry. No. It has to happen every day. Every single day. If you are crucified with Christ, you will live with him and he will live in you. Because otherwise,
 Otherwise, we will have this situation that Apostle Paul is also explaining, which is exact opposite. Okay, let's check. This is chapter 7, 17. Okay. And Romans, Romans 7, 17. Here the Apostle says,
 that in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing you remember that passage when he says that the what is good i want to do but i cannot do i do what i hate i sin okay i'm this miserable man who knows what is good but cannot do it okay brothers and sisters um i can tell you that uh for us
 is much worse. It's much worse what he's saying here, okay? Because for us, very often, we don't even hate sin. He says, I hate sin, I don't want to do it, but I go and do it. But for us, very often, we love sin, and we go and do it, okay? Without any remorse. And there is even worse, brothers and sisters, there is even worse. It's even worse when you love sin, you go do it,
 in Christ and Christ is in you. This is even more terrible fallacy. But many Christians are like that. All the heresies are all about that. Self-deceit. So now I begin with this discussion of sin, which is living in us. And unless Christ lives in me, it is sin that lives in me.
 I'm fine. All the problems are in these people, in this world. I'm poor, I'm good, or I'm a victim, etc. But we need to see that this sin lives in me. And what I do is done by this sin that lives in me. We need to be conscious of this. We need to see it in ourselves every day. We need to see how it's waking up and not telling me, okay, go, say this lie, go.
 Do this. Eat a lot. Okay? Satisfy your desires. Buy this thing. Okay? Cheat here. Scald this person. Etc. Etc. Post these vainglorious images on your Instagram or whatever. Okay? It's the sin which lives in you, in me, that is telling us to do, go and do these things. And if you think, no, no, no, it's not about me. Okay, sorry. You lost.
 You're conquered. You're blinded. Okay? And this is what I warn everyone, guys. Now, during these times of celebration, these joyful times, they can be joyful only if we're conscious of this danger and we have this immune system against this sin. Okay? There is a personalization of sin by Apostle Paul. He says, as though sin has personality. It's something alive in me.
 Well, we often say that about the virus or about other things, some sickness, it's torturing me, etc. Of course, it's a metaphorical language, but it can be used. So, just get along with that idea that sin is living in you.
 is the agent, if you will, is the agent of Antichrist who is in you already. There is agent, betrayer, the one who will surrender you to the hands of Antichrist. You don't need to go and seek for that enemy somewhere else. It's not the world government, okay? It's not the secret police. It's not Trump. It's not Putin. It's in you, okay?
 You and me. And people who think that they will hoard gold, silver, or they will have ammunition, they will have training survival skills, or they have barter economy, or they have some other means of survival in the end times, in crisis, but who don't see sin in themselves, all of them are going to be victims and slaves and worshippers,
 of antichrist and this is for sure absolutely and you will see now i will show you this in the gospel in the bible okay and to see that let us first look at the second thessalonians okay the second uh thessalonians chapter 2 verse 11 and 12. okay and here we have the apostle says
 And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie, that they all might be damned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Actually, in the verse 11, the original says that not send them strong delusion, that he will submit them to the action of delusion,
 control, this power of delusion. He will submit them. Okay, go, guys. You want it? You get it. Okay? So, this is amazing. I mean, how God can hand over people whom he loves, whom he's created, to the works of delusion. To the spirit of delusion. Well, because this is what they want. This is what they choose. Unrighteousness.
 lie, they want to live by lies that they hear from bloggers, from the internet, from fake churches, okay? They want to become sheeple, okay? In the bad sense, okay? They want to just follow along, whatever it is, including the people who think that they know, okay? That those conspiracies, okay? Unless they repent,
 their own sins every day, they will still be part of that delusion. Okay? Not through education, not through awareness techniques. Okay? Not through, I don't know, community, life. Nothing is going to help. Because if the Lord submits you to that, you cannot do anything. Okay? And to see that, let us read another passage. Okay? The final passage for today.
 Revelation, the book of Apocalypse, chapter 3, verse 10. When the Lord is telling to those churches, okay? He's telling to those churches, warning them. He tells to the church of Philadelphia, okay? The sixth church. I believe now we are in Philadelphia, partly Laodicea already. Okay, so here he tells.
 of the church in Philadelphia, right? Okay. And then he begins, and we see verse 10. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. Try. The Lord wants to try, to see, do you guys love me? And in that time of temptation,
 The apostle tells us it is God who will preserve those who are in the church of Philadelphia. Unless God wants and goes and preserves you from this, you will fail. Nothing else is going to save you from that temptation or tribulation or trial or deception, delusion. It can take all shapes and forms. Some people understand this as some crisis, some catastrophe, calamity.
 pastillance but it could be just a mass submission to this new divine like figure of antichrist with all the goodies that it brings okay entering into this new world order this brave new world only god can save your brothers and sisters so unless we become one with him unless it is
 He who lives in us. Not us anymore. Not my agenda, my plans. Selfish, limited, earthly. But no. It's God who lives in us. Jesus Christ living in us. Only that can save us from all delusion. So today let us make some conclusions. And in light of this coming year. We entered new year. And many people have new hopes.
 okay, they think, okay, now this year will bring something good, okay, some new projects. Well, we should be thankful to the Lord for everything that he still bears with us, gives us this time, okay. And we need to see that unless we repent ourselves, everything is going to fail.
 again. Four things. The first four things that people, us Christians, need to see every day of our life. Every time. Four things. The first and foremost is to see this sin that is still in you. To get rid of that sin. To fight with this. To crucify this. Okay? All these attempts coming. It's attempting to conquer this. Trying to break out.
 of that. Don't see problems somewhere else. It's in you, first, foremost. The second is we need to see the deception working in this world. If you don't see this deception, if you believe bloggers, if you're in some kind of agenda, I don't know, be it the leftist, rightist, green, any kind of agenda you are in, nationalistic, or you have something else, if you are in some agenda,
 okay then you are blinded you don't see the deception you are part of it okay you're enslaved already the third is constant search for truth we want to be with truth and righteousness because truth is christ search for him and his wisdom and his kingdom this is what he brought and he said this is the highest goal for all of you to seek my kingdom okay if it becomes for you thee
 goal. Only then will you be my children. And the fourth is we need to strengthen in faith, brothers and sisters. We need to strengthen in faith and in testimony. We're badly lacking missionaries, brothers and sisters. Big time. There are so many opportunities. There are so many people craving for the word of God, hungry for this word, in despondency, in
 all kinds of situations, pain, suffering. They need your word. They need your testimony about faith. They need to see that the Lord is alive. They need to see that there is a true confession of faith and not these fake heresies, fake churches. Everybody got disappointed with those things, unless they're still in some kind of delusion. We need to show them that, okay, it's not just
 There is the church, there is the faith, which is Christian faith, which is faithful to the apostles, which is still the salt of the earth and not some club or some other institute, organization, sect. So these are the things, brothers, sisters, I wanted to share with you. Let us spend these days wisely. Let us set spiritual goals for this upcoming new year.
 Let us prepare for the upcoming great land. We are. We want to be his children. This is our first goal. Okay. Unless we are. We set everything else aside. Everything else is meaningless. When you lose this. When you lose Christ. When you lose salvation. When you lose the heavens. Everything else is losing its meaning. Okay. And we don't want to go along with this world. Where people now are not just sinning.
 have some remorse. But they're happy about going and sinning. Okay. We don't want to be. Exit from them. You, my people. Don't participate in their works. You need to be aware of that, brothers and sisters. Don't be fooled. Don't be swallowed by the spirit of this world. May repentance, humbleness, true love, self-sacrifice, courage be with all of you.
 blessing of our Lord be with you and your beloved ones. Amen. God bless.
