 Dear brothers and sisters, after Theophany we begin preparing for the Great Lent. This year the Great Lent is earlier, it will be from February 23rd. But five weeks before the Lent we already begin preparation. So the Sunday of January 31st is already the Sunday of Zacchaeus.
 the first of those preparation Sundays. And today I will not talk about the Sundays, but I will focus on the spiritual task that we are setting before ourselves. And it will be fundamental in our understanding, for our understanding of what is going on in this world.
 ultimate evil that we need to be facing. And to our surprise, it's very different from what people say the evil is. And not only the politicians and secular people, but also the people who believe in God and people who are even Orthodox Christians very often set their wrong goals and wrong ideas. Their ideas are false.
 And this is why they lose this battle. Why do we talk about evil? Why cannot we just focus on good things? Create your life, do good things. Talk about positive stuff. Why are you always, guys, talking about sin, death, evil, etc. Satan, heretics. Why are you guys focused on these things?
 good things, on the love of God. Talk about the love of God. Well, the thing is that the Bible itself is focused on that. The gospel is focused on that. The life of the church, the Holy Fathers and everything else is focused on that. So there must be something very important in our understanding what is evil and how to fight with this evil for us to be able to be true Christians.
 so important? I mean, why it is so important? Well, first of all, let's see how the Bible is focused on that. Let's see from the creation of Adam and Eve, their life in paradise. How much do you know about their life in paradise? That they've done some interesting projects about their joyful life and their communication with God, their prayers. We don't know much about it, almost nothing.
 The wisdom of Adam and Eve. They have this great wisdom to name the animals. Okay? To create new words that would name some animal. Okay? But this is just a small little detail. We would be wondering what else. What was he doing every day? Some examples of how to love God, love each other. No. But we are told in very detail how they fell.
 Okay, this sin of Adam and Eve, how they ate that forbidden fruit. Okay, and our main impression about Adam and Eve is that they did a sin. Okay, even though later they repented and they lived for 900 years. Okay, and we don't know anything about those 900 years of life, but we know about their sin. Okay, and the same goes for the whole Bible. Okay, you go, you see the worship of Baal by Israel.
 We see that these Israelites, they are stubborn, they don't want to obey Moses. There is all kinds of evil. There is this evil in these Egyptians, this Pharaoh. It's always about some persecution, some negative stuff, betrayal, all the time. In the book of Job, the final revelation of God about his wisdom is also focused on the devil.
 Leviathan and Behemoth as the manifestation of devil. He's telling you, okay, devil is like that. You don't see it if you read the Masoretic text. It sounds like a nice little story for children. But it's actually talking all about devil. And we can see it when we read the Septuagint, which is based on more ancient Hebrew text.
 Okay, again, later we see all the prophets. Okay, they are telling the Israelites that they are false. They are wrong. They depart from God. Okay, and the same happens before Babylon, after the exile to Babylon. And by the time of Christ, the whole Israel is betraying him and doesn't want him. He wants Antichrist. Okay, and later the Lord himself is tempted by Satan.
 prayer, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Okay, he's outlining, he's pointing to devil in the main prayer that he gives to the church. This is how this is important, guys. People say, no, don't talk about devil, don't talk about devil, talk about angels. And then we see the Antichrist, it's all about those beasts and all those other stuff, okay? All those punishments and beasts and the harlot of Babylon and so much,
 I mean, you would say, why, Apostle John? You're preaching love. You said that love is most important. And you're talking about all this weird stuff. Evil stuff. And then the life of the church begins the same. It's all about prosecutions. Read the Acts of the Apostles. It's all about persecution. It's all about some evil stuff that's going on. Okay? And the same goes for the whole 300 years.
 church history before Constantine. And after Constantine it's all focused on heresies. The Holy Fathers, most of the stuff that they wrote, it's all about heresies. It's not about just some positive agenda. And the same goes all the time. Until our times, brothers and sisters, until our times, the ascets, all the ascets of the church, what are they writing about? They're writing about how to fight with the devil. How to fight with passions.
 how to fight with sin. You say, why are you always focused on the evil stuff? Now, let's say, even my videos is mainly about anti-communism, anti-liberalism, all kinds of evil that's going on now in the world. You may say, oh, father, why you don't just talk about how to love God, how it's beautiful to love God, this romantic kind of stuff.
 God when we are vigilant, when we understand what is evil and we're fighting against this evil. So this is why before we see that, we are focused on that. So now let's come back to this question of Antichrist and this evil that we need to fight against. Not many people are focused on this New World Order agenda, all these digital ideas.
 and all that kind of stuff and how to prevent ourselves from all that digital currency control, surveillance and all these things. Well, I'm telling you, okay, it's not the main thing to focus on. The main thing is to focus on that power that is pulling you towards sin. And if you are a Christian, you know what I'm talking about.
 Most of them, they are not conscious of that. They just slip into that and they have no way to go out. Be it sinful life or delusion that live in the spell. They live in some kind of worldview, which is fake. They live in this delusion, their daily routine life, be it consumerism, be it anything. They live in that shell, okay?
 they are told in their cell phones, it's all keeping them in that spell. They have nothing spiritual in their life. It's pale. The only stuff they are interested in is food, health, you name it, entertainment, enjoyment, some kind of other stuff. There is nothing else. There is nothing spiritual in there. Because they are in this spell. And they are in the sin. But we are trying to break out of that.
 If you know what is ascetism, what it means to take up your cross and follow me, and to fight with sin and passion, you know what I'm talking about. There is a very immense power that is pulling me and you, okay, towards sin, towards betraying Christ. And this power is immense. And if you say, no, it's not about me, it's someone else, sinners, those, then you are big time. You're part of it. You're big time into that.
 This is what the Lord said when he said that you see the speck in the eye of your neighbor and you don't see the beam in your own eye. Take out the beam from your own eye, you Pharisee. And you'll see how to help your brother to take out the speck out of his eye. So, brothers and sisters, this is the beam. We need to first remove this beam. So, the so-called conscious.
 Now that it's so famous, you have to be conscious. You have to be conscious that they want to control you, that there is another agenda of manipulating, brainwashing it. No, be conscious of your own evil within you, that you are the greatest enemy of yourself because you submit yourself to that power of Antichrist, which is working in you. And this is the same power which will pull the whole world towards worshipping and receiving
 the Antichrist. It is not through AI or surveillance. Those are just tools. Those are just instruments that he will use. But the main thing is he needs your soul. He needs your heart. He needs to win your heart. And the main battle is taking place in the hearts of men, brothers and sisters, not in the mind. Of course, also in the mind, but not mainly in the heart. In the mind, you can be as orthodox.
 as you want. Okay? You can be 100% Orthodox. Believe in the Orthodox way. Okay? Receive all the holy canons, all the teaching of the church. But in your heart, you become worshiper and slave of the mammon. This is so much possible. And this is done big time, brothers and sisters. Big time. Without people even realizing that. Okay? So, this is why spirituality
 the prayer and hesychasm is so important because that will expose your heart. What is going on in your heart? To whom does it belong? Okay, so now coming back to this idea of this Antichrist and this place of evil in this whole reality that we live in. Well, we need to recall Judas. Judas, the Iscariot,
 who betrayed the Lord, okay, he is a typos of Antichrist, okay, typos, it's so important to know what is typology, okay, that the Christ, he is in the center of all creation, of all history, so all the righteous, all the righteous from the creation of the world, of the Old Testament, and all the saints of the New Testament time, until now, they are all typologically
 linked to Christ. They bring Christ. They witness Christ through their lives, through their words. Okay? But there is at the same time, there is this typos, this typology of Antichrist. Brothers and sisters. And this is typology of this enemy of God. Enemy of Christ. Whom God hates. We see that when this typology came
 out in the desert. When Israelites, they were in the desert with Moses, they tempted God. You can read about it. It's in Exodus chapter 15 to 17. And when they've tempted God, 3,000 were killed. You can imagine how disappointed God was about that. He really does not want that. He hates this stuff.
 There is no place for that thing in God's eyes, in God's mind, in God's plan of salvation. But at the same time, it is taking place there. Okay? It's a paradox. Okay? It's a paradox. We cannot really understand it, wrap our minds around it. You cannot. It's just blowing your mind, if you think about it. But this is what it is. Okay? That God does not want Judas to betray him.
 He is so sorrowful about these Israelites betraying him and condemning him, putting him on the cross. This is not why he came. But this takes place. You can say against God's will. Yes, it's against God's will. Exactly against. It's demon. It's Satan's project. But this project takes place and it brings the glory of God.
 Eventually. Because he's crucified, he tramples death. Terrible. Okay, but the wrong conclusion is that these guys, they're just helping him. Okay, this evil guy. So, the Lord is actually happy that there was this Judas, and it was all planned, and everything went according to the plan, so it's all good. Okay, this is Kabbalistic view. This is a view of Kabbalistic God, which is
 totally wrong okay this is the attempt to understand god and you cannot understand god okay so now we bring this to our times we bring this to our times to understand what's going on and we can say that whatever sin whatever evil is taking you know taking place now is related to that scene of judas it's some kind of betrayal it's some kind of betrayal and this betrayal is
 is hated by God, but it takes place. And even though it's hated by him and he doesn't want it to happen, eventually it will bring out manifestation of his glory. It's just mind-blowing. What kinds of sin, what kinds of evil? You see, now we have this war going on, big war, and it's a bigger one coming most likely. This is international affairs, but we see it on our individual level, what we see around us, all kinds of betrayal.
 Be it the perversion, okay, which is going on. And the Lord himself said, you are this adulterous generation. Adulterous and sinful generation. Because it's the adultery and all this sexual stuff. Which is the exposure, it's exposing the filthiness and betrayal of man. Okay? And this sin of Judas, of betraying God, is there. What are they betraying?
 betraying the God's plan for you to create the church, small church, okay, the Christian family. Okay, against it. It's all working against it. You're betraying this. You know that this is how it's supposed to be, but you betray that. Okay, same goes for corruption in the government, let's say. Okay, you betray the idea or the ideal of
 just government, which is going as a kingdom of God. It's manifestation in this world. And you are against it. Be it all those revolutions, that's evidently against God. It's also betrayal of God. Be it, so devil, we say devil is a revolutionary. He has that spirit of revolution. It's betrayal of your family, of your parents, of your responsibilities.
 your dedication to work. It can be betrayal of any good, which is all coming from God. Any sin, any immoral activity, any iniquity is betrayal of God. You go shopping, you are in this consumerist mindset, you betray God. Because he said that it's another food for your soul that I give you. And instead of that, you choose this earthly stuff. You think that is what brings you pleasure.
 You betray me. You're playing computer games and go into this AI scrolling all day. You betray God. You betray God because you are choosing some illusory world and it's impossible to be with God in that state. You're losing vigilance. You're losing communication with your creator. You betray him. Okay, and you have to be, you have to lead ascetic life to understand all these things, brothers and sisters.
 be just some ideas, okay? You need to feel what I'm saying now. You need to really feel that. What does it mean to be loyal to God, to love Him, that your heart belongs to Him, and it's not attracted by anything else? So, brothers and sisters, this is the greatest danger of the world that we live in. And also, when we see some big evil things going on in this world nowadays, you need to know that this is not what God wants. This is not what God wants.
 But he is able to bring good outcome out of all this eventually. But in the process, of course, it will be so much evil. People will be dying, going to hell. Yes. But it's not what God plans. Okay? So, let us know real God, brothers and sisters. Not some fantasy idea of God. Because now,
 People are going away. They see that the God which is preached in the churches is not real God. It's something else. It's not just an idea which doesn't work, which doesn't fit the reality. But I'm telling you about God who is real. God of the scripture. God of the ascetic fathers who've had this real experience of God. And now this is what we need when we approach the great land.
 We need exactly to know what is the task of our spiritual life. What is the enemy? What is the goal of all of this? Why are we fasting? What does it give to us? Why are we eager to fast, to go through the Great Land? Only when we love God, we are seeking Him in prayer, we are seeking Him in the Holy Scripture. Only that is when we are truly who we are.
 is worth, our ministry to Him, us bearing the cross. May the Lord give us strength, strengthen us, guide us on this path of salvation, help us avoid any kind of delusion and slipping into any kinds of sin, okay, to conquer this inner enemy, which is torturing us, torturing us, deceiving us, stealing God, His salvation, His kingdom from us. May this not happen with us,
 brothers and sisters, anymore. And may he be with us, his blessing, his joy be in our hearts. I mean, God bless.
