 Dear brothers and sisters, God is a mystery. We cannot see him on the street. We cannot even use some special equipment, lasers, to find out where is he. He is not some principle of universe, some Tao, Taoist Tao, that we just need to understand this principle.
 And we got the answer. God is a mystery who can reveal himself to whomever he wants in whatever way he chooses, he pleases. And we can receive this revelation or maybe we cannot receive this revelation. And even if we receive it, maybe we don't use it, we waste it.
 in approaching God, we need to study the language that he is using. And the language he is using is not the language of logic or some philosophy. There is no methodology. If you want to talk about methodology, or we would say approach to finding out
 Who is God? What he wants from us? How do we live with him? How we make our life pleasant to him? We need to see how he himself revealed himself to the prophets, to the holy people. And we find that the scripture is all typological. There is the language of typology, which the holy fathers, they've explained to us, okay, that this is the path.
 to walk. This is why the Lord himself, he's using so much parables and vivid imagery to explain what is the kingdom of heaven, which is at hand, but where is it? I don't see it. He said, it's in you, but I don't see it in myself. I see all kinds of passions, all kinds of garbage in myself. I don't see the kingdom of God in myself.
 I do well now we are approaching the great land brothers and sisters we are approaching the great land and we need to prepare ourselves well for this journey and to understand what instruments or what direction to take if we want to succeed in this approach okay if we want to give the Lord the opportunity to reveal himself to us because very often it's not because he doesn't
 want, it's because we either don't want or we are not prepared. Okay, so what is this image of God? What is this typology, typos? We need to know well what is typos, brothers and sisters. We need to know this very well, because this is a New Testament concept. It is possible only
 with grace, with the divine grace, with blessing of God, which was unavailable to the people of the Old Testament, to the Old Testament church. And which is also closed to all the heretics, to all the people outside of the church of Christ. And for that matter, for the majority of the people who are inside, or at least formally inside, okay? This is closed.
 really get it for example all the old testament prophets and patriarchs okay through their life through what they've done what they've said how they lived they were images of the coming messiah of jesus christ they revealed in their times in their generations the ways of messiah the mystery
 of the coming Messiah. Okay? And this was possible because of this mystical link which exists, which we don't see with our carnal eyes, but it exists between them and Christ. And this link is this typology. Okay? The key is typology. And the same thing works for the New Testament Church, but at this time it's not like the shadow.
 in the Old Testament, those were shadows. But for the New Testament times, they are the revelation of the true things, of the heavenly reality. Whatever happens, whatever we do to reveal Christ is He Himself revealing Himself through us. This is already different. But the principle is the same. And this is not...
 Understood by Protestants, let's say. And even by Catholics, for that matter. Okay? For they don't see this link. They don't see this mystical link between God and people. And that's why they don't have any sacraments. They don't have the divine liturgy. They don't have any blessings of these physical things or people in this world. Okay? Consecration of holy water, etc.
 They don't have holy churches, holy relics. All of that is because of that broken link. So, something similar was going on in the Old Testament. Because there was not yet this revelation of the grace. There was not yet the mystical body of Christ being born, being created. But now it's been established on the Pentecost.
 grasp this theological meaning and we need to learn this typological language. The Lord said in the Romans 12, 2, sorry, Apostle Paul, he said that do not do not receive the image of this world, but change according to the image, but
 yourself according to the new image by changing your mind. Okay, this is my translation, but it's very close to the original. This means that we should not receive the image of this world, typology of this world, typology of Babylon, of Antichrist, of Cain, which is all around us, and especially in these gadgets that we scroll. Okay, don't do that, brothers and
 sisters, if you want to receive the image of Christ, if you want to be his witnesses, because a witness is not someone who just has some message in his brain, and he just goes and brings this message to others, okay? You can have AI do that for you. No, the thing is that we need to carry Christ in our hearts, in our
 even how we look. Everything has to manifest Christ. This is contrary to rationalistic thinking, this mechanistic thinking. We need to really abandon that mechanistic system. Some people are not mechanistic, but they're emotional. They go by emotions. That's another problem. It's also not what we are looking for. We now need to learn these
 mindset of a typologist. What does that mean? It is somewhat similar to mindset of an artist or, say, a film director. He's working with images. Of course, he's working with images of this world more often than not. At last, he's an iconographer or, I don't know, some gifted Christian who is projecting
 inner peace that he has, the inner kingdom of God that he gained, he's gained through, say, his paintings or his movies, which is also possible. Okay, but most of the time, even these people who have this imagery ability to think that way, they spoil it, and they are blinded, and they cannot see the true images. Okay, so for us, okay, who are not painters,
 not film directors. It's even harder, honestly speaking, it's even harder to think in that way. But this is the way. So, we need to develop this talent. We need to ask the Lord to help us develop this talent. To see how does the mystery of piety, of godliness, which Apostle Paul is referring to, is manifesting itself in us, in the Church.
 in the divine liturgy, in the way that Christians are dressed in the church. This all contributes to piety and to presenting Christ to the world. A very good example, just for us to understand how powerful is typology, is the link between Isaac and Christ.
 that Isaac, he was a typos of Christ. He was an image of, his pre-image of Christ, pre-image of Messiah. In the way he was born, he was born of a woman who could not bear child, okay? She was barren, too old, Sarah, but by the divine intervention, she was able to conceive a child and gave birth to Isaac.
 And in the same way, a woman who was a virgin and could not physically have a child, conceived a child and gave birth to our Lord Jesus Christ. There is this typological link between his name, because it was said that many will rejoice in his name of Isaac. And the same thing was said about the Lord Jesus Christ.
 elder brother's inheritance and blessing, and the Lord has given birth to the church, and we are the children of the inheritance. We are the younger children. Because the elder, the Old Testament church, did not inherit the blessing. And it was the Christian church, the New Jerusalem, that inherited
 all the blessings given by God to the people, that he was prepared, preparing the great kingdom that he is prepared for people to inherit. This kingdom is given to the new Israel. We welcome all the Jews and every nation to enter into this church. It's not about being Jew, but if you stick to, say, Judaism or
 some other stuff. Sorry, you don't receive the blessing because it's only through receiving Christ as a child and his kingdom that you can receive the true blessing and inheritance of the kingdom. So, this is also something that we see in Isaac. And his marriage was also supernatural as the marriage of Christ and the church. And also,
 The sacrifice. Which is the thing. Which is most well known. About Isaac. Is that he was to be sacrificed. By Abraham. And actually he was sacrificed. It was not just done physically. It was stopped at the very last moment. But spiritually it was done. So the sacrifice was made. And. How he carried. Isaac. He carried this wood.
 of sacrifice to be burned, okay, by this wood. But the Lord himself also has carried the wood of sacrifice, the cross, to be crucified on this cross. And he was crucified on this cross. Okay, so there is this very powerful typology, and this is not just something which just happened to be so similar.
 deep internal link between Isaac and the Lord. And there must be the same deep internal link between Christ and every each and single one of us who want to be his disciples. And this is why the holy martyrs were so happy when this typology of Golgotha manifested itself in their lives, that they would die also for the Lord.
 for the faith, for the truth. Okay, so brothers and sisters, we need to think deeply about this typology. Unless we develop this typological mindset and we read the Bible, the scripture in this way, we will not be able to get anything. And we will not be able to fast in the way we should. And we will not understand what's going on in the church. Because everything that is done in the church is typological.
 Okay, the divine liturgy, it's all typology, it's manifesting the kingdom of God. We need to learn this typological, mystical language. We will not understand why, say, women have to wear kerchiefs in the church. We will say, it's some custom, it's some local tradition, it's now we are so modern, developed, why we should carry this? Okay, if you want to be modern, go with this world.
 two chairs. And we see how the spirit of this world, which we call worldliness, is trying to transform the church. It's not that we are super conservative or something like that. It's not about conservatism. It's about either being in Christ or not being in Christ. And internal is linked to external in a mystical way. So,
 This is something we need to understand. This is why for the church the liturgy, the form of the liturgy, is also so important. And also the way people look in the church. But every good thing can be spoiled and perverted. So we also have this problem. This is the downside of this.
 for some people, when they don't have spiritual life, when they don't have love towards Christ, they don't love the gospel, they don't read the gospel, they don't do this ministry of self-sacrifice, they, at the same time, they pay so much attention to the external, okay, that everything is done according to some rule and schedule, okay,
 how they dress in the church and everything is done very, very good. And it makes them whom? It makes them Pharisees. They are like those painted tombs, which are so beautiful from the outside, but inside it's all kinds of filthy stuff. So we need to clean out, clean out the internal chamber of our heart. This is the goal for the land.
 But at the same time, we need to know that it will be manifested in the way we look, the way we speak. Everything is united. It's all one, brothers and sisters. It's all one. We should not be rationalists. We need to understand that human is one whole existence. It's body, soul, it's all together. Spirit, it's all together. It's all one.
 It's what you are, what is in your heart, what is in your mind, what is in your mouth, coming out of your mouth, and how you look also. So this is why we should not embrace those images of this world. For example, women, they care about this makeup, men care about their costumes, their watch, their this and their that.
 You are receiving image of this world. And don't expect that at the same time you will have kingdom of God in your heart. It doesn't work together, it doesn't match. So, it is now so important that we learn. Because there is this antitypos. There is the typos of Christ and the mystery of piety. And there is this antitypos, this image of the beast.
 And it's all around us, brothers and sisters. It's all around us. Especially in these gadgets and whatever we watch. The movies, everything. And we must have this immunity against this stuff. It should not attract us. May the Lord strengthen us on this path. Clean the innermost parts of our heart, of our soul.
 us truly witnesses of his glory. He said, whoever saw me, saw God the Father. And he wants to be able to say this about every single one of us. That whoever saw him, saw God the Father. He saw me, and he saw God the Father. May the Lord give us the gifts of the Holy Spirit, the wisdom, the virtue, and make us true,
 true witnesses of His glory, of His love, of His resurrection, so that this world can be renewed, converted, saved, rescued from this perdition, from this darkness, which is all over the place. May the Lord give blessing and help to every single one of you in preparation for the Great Lamp. Amen. God bless.
