 Dear brothers and sisters, the Holy Church is preparing to enter the Great Lent. The last week before the Lent is called Cheese Fair Week. It's already fasting. We don't eat meat anymore. But the most important is to set the right spiritual goals for the fast. It's not to study well what do we eat each day.
 understand that now is the time of spiritual warfare, okay? Now is the time that we conquer the devil, both inside and outside, okay? And now in these times of deception, okay, we don't really hear the clear message about this struggle. What are we struggling with?
 In the old times, the problem of deception was more clear. Because there were these heresies that were in this deception. There were pagans. But there was a holy church and it was much more clear than today. That it is the holy church which is the truth.
 And as long as you live well within the church, you are standing in truth. You are among those holy people who love God. But now it is quite easy to get into deception, even being within the church. We are living in the times of great, tremendous deception. And at the same time, it's not new.
 Maybe it was not as bad as now. Because, for example, in the times of the split of Catholics, when the Eastern Church remained Orthodox, but the Western Europe slipped into this heresy, this papism. This didn't happen overnight.
 And as a matter of fact, it was not like somebody came and said, OK, guys, let us betray the true church. Let us betray apostolic teaching. And now here you go. Here is Antichrist. And we receive him as God. OK, do you sign up for that? OK, if you don't, we kill you. Nobody came and demanded people to betray anything like that.
 They kept going to churches, they kept fasting, receiving Holy Communion, reading the Holy Scripture, but over time were getting further and further away from God and ended up in a heresy eventually.
 of the church and even an active member going to church all the time, you are not guaranteed against slipping into deception. This may sound terrible, but this is truth. And that includes everyone, not only laymen, but the priests, the bishops, the monks, everyone. These are the times we're living in. And today I want to talk to you about
 how to avoid this okay because unless we learn this spiritual warfare we cannot avoid this no matter how much we are in the church and active in the true church of christ and just by knowing which day to fast which day to eat this to do that you cannot you cannot avoid it it cannot be done okay so it's it's um
 Important to really understand what I am going to talk about. It's not just some extra bonus, okay, that you can learn and you can understand something more about fasting. No, it's detrimental. It's crucial for your salvation, for my salvation, for your salvation.
 spiritual life. These are the things I want to talk about. So, first, I want to identify two wrong ways of treating the whole topic of Antichrist and his kingdom and all this deception which is coming. There are two, at least two, there are more, but today I'm going to talk about these two.
 Attitude, which is just relax. Just live as everyone. Yes, believe in Christ. Read the Bible. But everything is fine. So, don't even think about all those things. You know, this book of Revelation is some mystery that nobody really understands. So, just live it at that. People don't even read gospel. Live along the book of Revelation. And that's majority of Orthodox. Okay. Unfortunately.
 So, even when people have that attitude towards their spiritual life and salvation, I don't want to talk about it, okay? Because that means that they disregard, they are completely carnal, okay? And they can be as orthodox as you want, but be far away from true love of Christ and from true salvation. We just need to be honest to ourselves and to each other.
 who are trying to prepare for what is coming and what we have now already, they tend to slip into one of these two, partly right, partly wrong. Okay, I cannot say it's completely wrong. Okay, one position is that, okay, Antichrist is going to come at some point. Okay, so let us worry about that when he comes. Okay, so don't slip into this paranoia,
 seeing him everywhere in passports, in QR codes, in barcodes, in CBDC, in AI, in all those things, in the internet. Okay, stop this paranoia because it doesn't call you to betray Christ, to bow to Antichrist. It doesn't ask you to do that. So just don't
 Don't focus on that stuff. Okay. That position. Partly true. Yes. He hasn't come yet. Whatever we see. It's not him yet. Okay. However. It's not true. In saying that. All these things. Which I've just listed. Have no connection to Antichrist. That they don't have any spiritual harm. They do not bring any danger to us.
 Now, before coming of the final Antichrist. Because the spirit of Antichrist is working in every century. Okay? And if we accept that statement, we can say that, well, how about the early martyrs and saints and desert fathers and mothers who fought with the devil, who fought with Antichrist in the 4th century, in the 6th century, when there was no mobile phones, no internet,
 AI, no drones flying around you? How come they fought with Antichrist back then already? So, we can say that to fight with Antichrist, to fight with devil, you don't have to wait for this final kingdom of Antichrist to come over. Okay? So, this is one thing. This is one thing. Another problem that people slip into is that they
 focus on how to avoid all this uh control all this uh digitalized uh utopian totalitarian socialist orwellian world which is coming which clearly has to do something with antichrist okay how do we avoid that do we um hold on to uh
 precious metals, or maybe we need a lot of ammo, okay, guns, or maybe we need to go on strike and protest against, I don't know, credit cards or some other form of digital IDs or something else, okay? Do we learn how to survive in the jungle or in the forest? Okay.
 Or something else. Grow potatoes. On our own. What do we do? Some people focus on that. And they think that. That is something that is going to save them. From what's coming. But at the end of the day. If you think about it. You see that it's all about earthly stuff. Earthly ways. So the same spirit. This earthly spirit. Is in those people. Who are trying to protect.
 protests to prevent those things from coming. Be it the anti-vaccine thing, anti-globalization, anti-digitalization, but it's also grounded in earthly ways and methods. And I'm not saying that you don't need any earthly ways, any earthly methods to prevent this being subdued by Antichrist at the end of the day.
 You do need that, but this is not the main thing. It's not going to save you. Some people think it's education. You learn, you study, you understand more. And you can understand all the deceptions of Antichrist. No, that's not something that's going to save you at the end of the day. So today I want to talk about what does save people.
 this overthrowing of devil, Satan. And this is what we are going to focus on during the Great Lamp. And this is overthrowing of the earthly spirit. You need to understand very clearly, every day, what does it entail. Then you can become spiritual. You can love Christ. You will learn to love
 of Christ, to be his child. And this is the goal. To deepen our life, our love towards our Lord. To become more and more belonging to his kingdom and not to this world. And since we are all so carnal, brothers and sisters, we are so earthly that we cannot see it in ourselves right away. First, we need to learn how to see it in others. Not accusing people, no.
 at least to understand what does this mean. And gradually, if you think about it, you will see that the whole world, everyone around us, is concerned and worried about earthly stuff. Be it career, be it entertainment, vacations, learning some things for myself, okay? Hobbies,
 Sports. Education. Entertainment. Any field that you look into. Health. Fitness. Any field that you look into. People are obsessed about it. And they think about it. All time. Every day. And that's earthly stuff. And even in the church. How do I make this more beautiful? How do I put this? How do I put this? Okay.
 Or how do I attract more people? How do I do more activities, entertain more people? It's external stuff. And if you focus only on that, you don't have the spiritual content. There is no voice of God who speaks through asceticism, through the gospel, through overthrowing the old man. What is this old man? Nobody is talking about it.
 Okay, we will see more and more. And if you are humble and honest to yourself, you will see this in yourself more and more. And you will discover that 99% of everything you do, you think, you want is earthly. And you will also discover that you cannot do away with it.
 beyond your ability, you know that you're supposed to be different, but you cannot change yourself. And this is why, this is now my goal and my role is to tell you that, to change, not only me, of course. And when you hear that, your conscience may awaken and find that motivation necessary to say, no, okay, now is the great land
 to be different and I come out of this prison of my habits, my ideas, the way I live, the way I think, who I am inside me. All of that has to end. This old self. And now everything has to be different. Everything has to be new. This radical change that I need to go through if I want to be a child of God.
 to the kingdom, to inherit this kingdom, to receive it as a child. Unless we become spiritual, brothers and sisters. Nothing else really matters. I can tell you that if you're worried about this, that Antichrist is going to control you through whatever, surveillance, or drones, or AI, or something else, I can tell you, we're living in the times of great freedom.
 Are you controlled so much right now by, I don't know, some Gestapo? Or who cares about what you are talking about on the phone, in your chats? Now you have much more freedoms, let's say, in Soviet times, in the USSR or in Germany, during Nazi regime, or even in the 19th century, where there was so much
 regulations, what you can write, what you can say, what you can think, much more. You're living in the free times. You can travel, you can do this, you can do that. Yes, there are problems, there are some things that are being restricted more and more, but still, I mean, it's not gonna happen overnight, okay? You can do education, you can study in different countries, you can
 whatever you want. Okay. You can own whatever you want. You can buy, you can sell. So if you're worried only about these restrictions, maybe you can relax for another 50 years. I know. I don't know for how long. But now, okay, sorry to disappoint you, but it's still far. The Antichrist is still far from controlling every single thing that you do, that you think, etc. And sending drones to destroy everybody who doesn't bow to him,
 as God, we're still far away from those times. But that doesn't mean that we should not have spiritual struggle. So I really want everyone to rethink what we are focused on in our spiritual struggle. If we want to win, if we want to become spiritual, if we want to grow from this carnal mindset that all of us have to one degree or another,
 We need to see that we should not put a big trust into some earthly stuff. That was the problem in old times. It was a problem of Christians and even Jews in the time of Christ. They were thinking that something earthly can be the ground, the protection for them to reach God.
 some swing over devil okay so now some people think that it's the right or it's the left you know people in government or some people think that it's russia is the bastion of truth and it's the last army of god against antichrist there are all kinds of different theories going around because people are carnal carnal only
 daily life, they live in these passions. And not even noticing them. And get into all kinds of fantasy land. Okay? We should not count on earthly stuff. We should not say my trust is in this. Okay? In this government. Or in this country. Or in this whatever. Patriarch. Or anything else. Just need to break away from earthly stuff. Brothers and sisters. Now the great
 land is coming, we need to break away from earthly stuff. Of course, from this digital stuff that now people have addiction to. If you have that addiction, I tell you, you're done with. It's over for you. You're not going to slip away from the deception. So, let us truly become free. Spiritually free.
 sound healthy. If someone who receives the blood of Christ is still sick, that's a big problem. That's a big problem. That means that we are not loving Christ. That we are fooling ourselves. At least people who are in the body of Christ, who receive his healing body and precious blood, they have to be healed spiritually. Because all the world is sick. Apparently,
 How can you be healthy spiritually if you don't live with Christ, with this source of life? No matter how active and how smart you are, you are spiritually sick and blinded. You don't want the light. May we be among those who choose light and who stay in light, and whose hearts and souls are healed by this light.
 on this path and ask the Lord's grace to make us victors, victorious over any darkness, any delusion, any passion, any evil spirit that is out there. Not to be earthly, okay? Not to be captured by any kinds of earthly desire, wish, deception. May the Lord's blessing, strength, and the motivation, the eagerness, the will,
 To be with Him, be with you, brothers and sisters, every day and me. God bless.
