 Dear brothers and sisters, we're about to enter the Great Lent. This Sunday is the Forgiveness Sunday. It's also called the Sunday of Adam's exile. It's called the Forgiveness Sunday because we ask Lord's forgiveness. And we ask each other for forgiveness for anything we've done wrong. And this reminds us of the words of Christ.
 that when you come to the altar to bring your offering to your Lord, and at that moment you recall that you have something against your brother, leave your offering, leave your sacrifice before the altar, go back, reconcile with your brother, and then come and offer your sacrifice. And this tells us that the Great Lent is the sacrifice.
 we do, that we bring to the Lord. But remember that there was the sacrifice of Abel and there was the sacrifice of Cain. And Cain's was not received by God. So we don't want our fasting to be rejected by the Lord, to be a domination in his eyes. And this is why the first thing that we need to do when we are facing
 this journey of the land, is to throw away the mindset of Cain. We need to throw away this idea that fasting is just some rules, some restrictions, okay? That the goal is for me to suffer through these few weeks without meat, without milk, without the stuff I like, okay?
 these check marks, okay? I've done A, B, C, so I am Orthodox Christian. I am the Christian, okay? We are not Christians, okay? If we do that, if this is the mindset that we have. So today I want to share with you, brothers and sisters, what are some mistakes in the way we treat the fasting.
 How do we enter the fasting? What goals do we set for the fasting? And what are the main fallacies that exist now in the church, in this time of apostasy, that we need to avoid if we truly want to fast, to have the true union with our Lord, okay? And not just some tradition, some ritual, okay?
 some kind of Pharisee law-abiding exercise, okay? Well, I will be talking about the Lent a lot, okay? Different aspects of the Lent during this Lent, okay? But today I won't cover everything. I just want to say some basic things, okay? Which are so important.
 This mindset, which I've mentioned, is the canine mindset, okay? And the canine mindset is what, okay? Is that basically who you are. You are egoistic, hedonistic, libertarian anarchist, okay? Who just wants to eat what he wants, to go where he wants, to do what he wants. And now all of a sudden,
 there is this fasting and well yes i want to consider myself a christian orthodox christian so yes okay i will suffer through this and then i'll go back to whatever eat whatever i want do whatever i want this anarchist libertarian mindset because this is who we are not everyone but many and this is the core thing that we need to change okay we need to change we need to
 to ourselves, this is the chance, this is the time that I change fundamentally myself, who I am, and not that I just don't do this ABC, don't eat pork sausages during this time. So, the Lord has said that broad is the way leading to perdition, and many walk that
 way. And narrow is the path leading to life. And few walk that way. So, this is now the time, brothers and sisters, that we find that narrow path. That we honestly tell ourselves that I'm not walking this path. I'm diverting all the time. I'm looking somewhere else. My mind is wandering all over the place. And it's not focused on the Lord. It's not talking
 to God. And now is the time, now is the opportunity for me to drop all that, to change fundamentally, from within. Of course, not everybody is that anarchist, libertarian, liberal, I don't know, you name it, individualistic, selfish, demon-like character, okay? Some people, they are, seem to be the opposite, seem to be
 and do whatever they are supposed to do, okay? And abide to the rules and listen to authority. And they became zombies, sheeple, okay? Those who just go with the flow. And even in the church, we have such people that, okay, how is everybody fasting? Don't eat this, don't do that. Okay, I'm just doing the same. I just do the same like everybody else.
 the great land. Everybody is going to... It's orthodox, so they all go to salvation, so I just do the same. I also will end up in the salvation at the end of the day. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. We are not zombies, okay? We... We don't want to create this comfort zone that I just have comfortably do as everybody else, and this will give me something,
 Maybe this works in the Muslim world. They also have now fasting, Ramadan. If you want to be Muslim, just be Muslim. For us, it's not about keeping the rules and being like everyone else in the church. For us, fasting is daring. Fasting is the act of free love, conscious search for the Lord, His kingdom, and His righteousness.
 For the world, these two are the only options. You are either that type or this type, generally. And actually, these two types, they converge sometimes, okay? Because, for example, both would want to just tick those boxes. I do A, B, C. Both would want to do that, but we don't. Because the Christian mindset is...
 It's spiritual, okay? It's mind-blowing. It doesn't fit into those formulas that we have in this flat, graceless, and fallen world. Completely tasteless, okay? No matter what it's trying to show off, okay? That it's smart, that it's educated, that it's whatever. This world is graceless.
 carnal, flat, material. It's going to perdition. So the spiritual path is going by the word of Christ. And the Lord wants us to dare, to seek, to become his witnesses. If you want to be a witness, you cannot be just go by the flow. You will challenge.
 will challenge this world. You will challenge many things, many assumptions, even within the church. Okay, we're not afraid of any kind of challenge. First of all, we challenge ourselves. This is the time of challenge, brothers and sisters. The great land is the time of breaking with a hammer whatever can be broken and which doesn't stand to the truth of the Lord, to the holiness.
 So, we destroy our old self. We destroy, be it individualistic, be it this conformistic, we need to do away with that. We need to set spiritual goals, brothers and sisters. Now that we enter into the land, we really need to set those goals.
 in terms of asceticism, in terms of reading the holy books, okay, the scripture, and whatever is written by holy people, saints, all of that is scripture, okay? It's not just the Bible. Labor, ministry, be it our work involvement, be it our housework, be it whatever, okay?
 Just we try to avoid too much conversations with people. Try to avoid speaking much. The great virtue grows when we speak less. We're not sociopaths, but we like this tranquility, this quietness in which we talk to God. And we don't open the music all the time, the radio, the TV or whatever.
 We are not sticking to those gadgets all day long. Try to put it as far as you can. Maybe just a couple of times a day check your messages. Don't be always there. Just forget about it. Try to forget. Some people, they don't do anything, just read and pray. And that can also be dangerous, brothers and sisters.
 in those monasteries, people work, people go out and do toil, all kinds of labor. Otherwise you can slip into fantasies, into some kind of spiritual delusions. So it's good to do some ministry, labor, go out and do it. Just try to avoid too much conversation and watching too much, okay? Too much visual stuff entering into your consciousness.
 Unfortunately, what I've just said is not a norm for most Christians. I'm talking about Orthodox. I'm not talking about those outside of the church, Protestants, Catholics. There is no fasting there. There is no real fasting. It's just a joke. In the Catholic Church, it's just a joke. Like, really, something that looks like fasting is only two days a year. Ash Wednesday and
 Great Friday. Good Friday. But other. With the Protestants. They are outside of fasting. All together. And that's why they are just puppets of the devil. The devil just plays them around. As he wishes. And for us. Now we are standing. On this journey. That has to set us free. Brothers and sisters.
 free and capable of spiritual fight. It's not a simple thing. So the goal for some Orthodox, unfortunately, is what? Is to eat tasty stuff, which is fasting, which is counted as fasting. Okay, this is the biggest goal. How do I make tasty dinner,
 without breaking the fast. Who are you trying to fool? God or whom? Or your family? We have a saying in Russian that you want to eat a cake, this cream cake, without having your fingers dirty. You want to take that piece, eat it, but have your fingers clean. You cannot do both, okay? If you either eat it, okay,
 you don't eat it and have your fingers clean. But some people, they want to do that. So, that's something that God doesn't want. This is the canine sacrifice, canine fasting, Pharisee fasting. We don't want that, brothers and sisters. And I'm not talking about those Orthodox who don't fast. Now some people will come to me and say, Father, how come so many people, they say they are Orthodox,
 don't fast at all, the holy canons of the church tell you whoever doesn't fast is not a member of the church. Period. They can call themselves whatever they want, but they are not orthodox. They are not members of the church. If you consider yourself member of the church and you don't want to do anything about changing yourself and you remain the worshipper of mammon, of your old self,
 of your carnal flesh, of your belly. Sorry, you're not Christian. Let's be honest to ourselves. So it's not that we want to accuse them. We don't want to condemn them or anything. We love people, but we just need to be honest. And if we don't tell them that, nobody else is going to tell them that. Okay, so this is regarding those who don't fast at all. Okay, this is completely terrible.
 Even the heretics, even Muslims, those worshipers of Antichrist, even they fast for other reasons, but even they go through some hardship and we don't want to do anything. This is unacceptable. Okay. One important goal, brothers and sisters, during this Lent that we have is to identify your biggest
 problem your biggest passion fallacy way of life character trait okay something that is always there and you cannot change it and you think you gave up already okay you need to do to tell yourselves this is what I am and I don't want to be like that for some people it's anger they always get angry or some people it could be
 Greed, always want something, get something. For some people is vainglory. I don't know, be visible, have like in your posts in Facebook or go to some competition, have medal or something else. They just, this is part of their life, okay? For some people is these gadgets which they cannot get rid of, scrolling.
 They cannot get rid of it. It could be anything. It could be anything, brothers and sisters. It could be deceit, that you're not honest to yourself, to your employer, to your relatives, to your family. Always tricky, always something like that. It could be cowardness. It could be anything. But you need to know what it is and be honest to yourself that this is me.
 I'm completely, I'm betraying Christ. I am selfish. It could be a gluttony for most people. This is what we find out during the fasting. But it's not only that. So please identify that. And now is the chance. Is this rare chance to change with the grace of God. There is nothing impossible.
 for him. And we don't have that much time. Six weeks, brothers and sisters, the great land, only six weeks is going to end like that. We have these six weeks for grief over our sins, for sorrow, for weeping, for asceticism, for deep prayer. You can pray much more during this time.
 it's amazing. If you set that goal, I just set everything apart and I pray often, every two, three hours, maybe more often. Just stand up and pray. Force yourself. Set everything aside. Nothing is gonna change. Nothing major is gonna happen if you put it aside and pray. Whatever you could not do and you were hoping to do one day, you will be able to do it during the Lent.
 Why six weeks? Because the seventh week, the Passion Week, is already not a great plan. It will be the final week before Pascha, during which our eyes are always, are already focused on Golgotha, on these last days of the Lord's life on earth,
 through these passions and death and crucifixion. And we are with him on those days. It's already no time to focus on your own sins, on changing, on asking him. No, we're already there. If we've done this great land well with the Lord's help,
 with Him spiritually, truly, bearing the cross together with Him, following Him on Golgotha, dying, having our old self die, and having our whole heart craving for the Kingdom of Heaven, for the life and resurrection that He brings at His resurrection.
 have Orthodox who are trying to keep the land. But which are signs of apostasy. The Church of Laodicea, the spirit of that church, which is Orthodox, but the Lord told her that if you stay like that, I will throw you out, I will spit you out, if you don't change, if you don't repent. What are these things? For example, some people say,
 He's okay for the great land. This is apostasy. It's not fasting anymore. This came in the 50s, okay? And has spread in the church. And some people, some priests, they think that this is fine. This is great land. Sorry, this is not land anymore. This is something else. No fish in the great land. Just two days. There are just two days.
 and the Lazarus Sunday. Sorry, the entrance of the Lord into Jerusalem. Those are the only two days when the fish is allowed. No fish in the great land. Some people now say that the seafood is not meat, okay? That it's fasting. Well, it's a delicacy, okay? Seafood is a delicacy.
 it's more tasty than fish. And now people eat seafood all the time during the Great Lent, and they think that they keep the Great Lent. They don't keep anything. It's this apostasy, this spirit of apostasy, brothers and sisters. Other people, they eat all kinds of fasting delicacies, be it some desserts, be it some tasty stuff. And now even in monasteries, if you go during the Lent into some monasteries,
 monasteries, you'll find tons of delicacies, which are all fasting, but it's a celebration for the flesh. They're super tasty. Now we need to choose the stuff that is less tasty, if anything. Okay? Fasting is supposed to let you feel hungry. During the Lent, Great Lent, we need to feel often hungry, brothers or sisters. This is fine. You won't die. Don't overdo it. Don't overdo it, yes.
 you need to feel some hunger. At least on those strict days. I will say more. Some days, the first week, the fourth week, and the passion week are very strict. And Wednesdays and Fridays of every week are very strict. I'll tell more about these details maybe in future videos. But on those strict days, we need to feel some hunger. This is fine. Now people forget what that feeling is. Not for the land.
 Some people talk a lot during the Lent. Social media and other stuff. No, no, brothers and sisters. You'll lose grace. You won't have grace. Just as simple as that. And without grace, we cannot fast. Also, irritation and anger. This is also very common. The whole Pharisee thing.
 everybody else, you think that you're righteous, you think you're something, those things, this is big mistake, this is big error. If you think it's normal, sorry, it's a waste, it's a fake land, it's fake fasting. And another problem which is common is that people for some reason, they break the land one time,
 Small problem. But the big problem is they say, well, now I already broke the land, so why keep it? Okay, it's all failure. Maybe next year. This year it's all ruined. I blew it. So next year. This is the biggest mistake you can make. Just stand up and go. Just stand up and go. Every day the Lord gives you an opportunity to do something for Him. To approach Him through fasting.
 to seek for His face, to express your love, your search for Him, you focus on Him. This is the goal of the land. It's all about love. Love is free. It's not that you are bleached to something. No, it's a great opportunity that the Lord is opening to you to love Him, to find Him, to see Him, to discover Him. This is our goal, brothers and sisters.
 Lent this year. May He make it pleasing to Him. May He guide us, guide our hearts, give us wisdom, give us humbleness, give us true repentance, deep repentance, tears of repentance. May He resurrect us, heal the wounds of our hearts, enlighten our spiritual eyes, help us get away, get over with everything which is still
 keeping us from being with Him, from loving Him, from serving Him, from witnessing Him through our life, through our compassion to others, through our faith in Him every day in everything we do, that we may truly be His witnesses. And in this brotherly love and self-sacrifice,
 and may be made worthy to participate in His passions in Golgotha and in His holy, glorious resurrection. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters. I wish you a joyful and fruitful Lent. Amen. God bless.
