 Dear brothers and sisters, the first week of the Great Lent is almost over, and we need to ask ourselves, what is the ultimate purpose of this Lent? What is the greatest motivation for us to continue another five weeks, and then the Passion Week? What is the spiritual meaning of the Lent?
 strict days, first week, second week, and people are researching what is the most correct way to eat during the Lent. Well, today I hope I can explain that it's not about rules, brothers and sisters. The path towards salvation, this path of carrying our cross and following Christ is not a religion.
 of rules and teachings and dogmas. It is our love towards Christ. This is relationship that we build after meeting the Lord and allowing Him to enter into my life, into my heart, to change everything about how I think, what I do, what do I live for. It's a radical break with this world and with my old self.
 And today I want to explain a bit more about how does fasting relate to love of Christ. What is the relationship? And what do we mean when we talk about spiritual warfare? This struggle. Struggle with whom? Are we going through struggle? Is my rejection of sausage, this dinner, is a spiritual struggle? Well, it's not, brothers and sisters.
 Because if that's the main struggle that we do, we are still far away from spiritual struggle. People don't want to keep even the smallest, these minimal fasting restrictions. This is why we have people who eat seafood in the land. We have people who eat fish in the land.
 eat tasty stuff, which is formally not meat. Okay, it's vegetarian or even vegan, but it's very tasty. And they think that they can be truly Christians, finding those some loopholes around some restrictions. I mean, when this is the way we take the land, we are far away. We're still so far away from Christ.
 we are just beginning our way towards christ when we just found the faith and we need to learn the basic fasting rules because it's something new for us okay yes then we naturally we can be focused more on the rules and which days are strict etc just to get used to these things but the thing is that some people just stay there just stay on that level and this is not what the
 is all about because you see the vegans or vegetarians okay they fast all the time do they conquer satan or buddhists hindus hinduists or i don't know jews for that matter muslims they have ramadan are they winning against devil is do they do they have spiritual struggle i will ask you
 someone who is not spiritual have a spiritual struggle. It's impossible. This can tell us that just by keeping some dietary restrictions, you cannot fight with devil. You will not fight with devil. And that means that you will lose to him. And that means that he will destroy you in the same way as he destroys drug addicts or people, zombies who go and die in the
 war killing someone or people who commit suicide so unless we really understand we grasp the spiritual meaning of the land and we make this connection between love loving christ and keeping the land we need to make this connection okay otherwise we won't we'll fail big time okay so today i want to talk about this core topic
 and we cannot love the land. We need to love the land. It has to become celebration. The Lord told to his disciples, when it's a fasting time, don't be like Pharisee, make a gloomy face and let other people see that you're fasting. No, anoint your hair and wash your face and don't look to others as fasting, but as what? As celebrating. Why? Anointing the hair is like makeup for women.
 celebration time it's time of a feast of a banquet okay it is time of celebration is great land celebration for you or is just time when you're waiting when my tasty steak is gonna come when the land is over we have to change brothers and sisters we have to discover okay that it is the great land that can make us alive that can make us spiritual
 and can make us christians and can give us salvation otherwise we don't have it okay so let's go again step by step the first difference between the christian land christian fasting and all other types that i've just listed other religions or vegan or i don't know you're a new age you do yoga you do you care for the environment and
 are afraid to drink milk because the cow is suffering when it's produced, etc. All other types of motivations. The Christian land is Christ-centered. It's all about Christ. It's not about yourself becoming better. Also, it's also about ourselves fighting the passions and becoming more capable,
 of prayer, but it's secondary. The first and foremost, it is out of our love towards Christ, our search for Him, our knocking to the kingdom of God, deep repentance, throwing away this world for the sake of Christ, for the sake of being with Him, seeking His face, reconciling with Him, asking Him questions, penetrating His wisdom,
 Craving for the word, for divine word in scripture, in the works of the holy people, in prayer. Serving others. Serving others and through that serving Christ. It's so important that we fast not just focused on ourselves. How can I be a better something? Control myself, better disciplined. It's not just about that. It must be for others.
 also, dedicating our time, our effort, our heart to people around us, to people in need, and like that, serving Christ. This is the land. We are attempting as much as we can to revive our link with God. This mission, confirm ourselves in this mission, in this mission that we signed up for when we said yes to God.
 put on ourselves some title, I am good Christian, I am Christian, I am Orthodox Christian. It's not about putting a title, it's about saying yes to God, allowing him to enter into your life and sacrificing your whole life for him. Every other motivation to land is external, okay? To be more disciplined, to even fighting with passions, improving your
 self-control, self-restraint, growing in virtue. This is all good, but it's all secondary. Primary is to be with Christ, to love him, to express your love to him. And this is why we break away with all the passions, with all sin, with all evil thoughts. We break away with this world. We trample this world. We break away with ambitions we have in this world. Career ambitions. I don't know.
 traveling plans, other enjoyment, material possession, family, I don't know, activities. Everything else is set aside. We show to the Lord that He is, that our heart belongs to Him without restraint, totally and unconditionally. This is true vigilance. What all the fathers are talking about, the desert fathers, the holy fathers,
 talk about vigilance standing on guard and on guard of our heart so that we can greet christ so that we can be always facing him always alive always on guard always awake so brothers and sisters our ability not our ability our recovery from our sick state that we are possessed by all kinds of
 All kinds of addictions, bad habits. This is sick, paralyzed state. Our worldliness. It's our sickness. It's our inability to live, to breathe spiritually. This state prevents us from even being on guard. Leave alone having some spiritual warfare, some struggle, some fight. The first task is to recover.
 recovery from main problems, main corruption that we have of our soul, of our mind, of our will. And then we hope to be vigilant as those warriors. We want to be warriors. The Great Lent begins, the first week has this chanting, asking Lord to shine upon his army. Those warriors, who are the warriors of God?
 and these are martyrs, and these are holy apostles. Are we among his warriors? What are we? We cannot even do small sacrifice for him. So now is the great land is the goal, our goal, our hope to be together with this company, with these great warriors, champions of Christ's love, those who love him truly.
 Prove that by their deeds and their life, their death. So warriors, first, they need to know how to be on guard, to keep the watch of the camp or some fortress in the night, all the time, 24 hours. This is our goal. And then the Lord may allow some threats, some attacks by the devil, by the world.
 on us. And if we are on guard, we will fight. That will be spiritual fight, brothers and sisters. Not to struggle with the sausage if I eat it or I don't eat it. That's not spiritual struggle. That's kindergarten. As hard as it may be, it could be very hard to fight with the minimal. I'm not Pharisee. I'm not accusing. I'm not judging. I know myself how tough it may be to fight with some carnal
 Habit that you have but we need to be honest ourselves. That's not yet spiritual struggle. That's kindergarten struggle Okay, and we have to go through that and at some point if you're winning if you're winners we may be facing true spiritual struggle and that struggle is much more Harsh, it's much more dangerous than any other world crisis now people worry so much about
 Iran-U.S. war, if it's going to break up, or there is going to be a breakout, or there's going to be some other crisis, energy, internet, or financial, or whatever, but all of that is nothing compared to spiritual war. Those things, they can bring spiritual struggle also.
 to get in despair suicide etc because those people they don't know how to deal with that they are not spiritual and they'll fail and we need to be ready for any kind of harm physical we say external or internal spiritual and as long as we can be with Christ no matter what anything that might happen will not crush us will not
 do, will not bring fear. What kind of fear is there as soon as I'm with Christ, as long as I'm with Christ? So, having said all this, brothers and sisters, you can now appreciate how big a difference is between the Christian land and this Pharisee formalistic rule-based approach. It's like heaven and earth. And this doesn't mean that now we don't care about this
 rules, et cetera, regulations that we have in the land. But for us, those rules is just some very basic, very minimal. We will be much, much further in the struggle than those rules describe. Okay. We will not be on the other side trying to make these rules, you know, easy, easier. Okay. No. For example, in the church of Jerusalem in the fourth century,
 There was all kinds of different practices. There were many practices that people used for the Great Lent. Some people, they were abstaining from food from Sunday lunchtime till Saturday morning after the liturgy. You can imagine six days without food at all.
 Some were even doing without water, without drinking. But this is maybe too much already. Okay. Some were eating twice a week. Some three times a week. Some were... The most relaxed one was eating once a day. That was the most relaxed. One small meal around 3 p.m. That's it. For us now this seems to be super hard. Okay.
 stuff we run all day, do this, do that, so it's understandable, okay? I don't want you to feel bad. But just a basic rule that we don't eat plant, sorry, animal food, dairy, meat, eggs. It should not be tough. Just some seven weeks, less than seven weeks. It's so little.
 We can do more. We can do more than that. Don't overdo it. If you have some bigger rule, ask your priest for blessing. Get a blessing. Not to get proud or arrogant. Okay. So, this is external land. This is the external part of the land. And I've talked about it last time also. Last video. It goes hand in hand with the internal land.
 I will say more about internal land in my upcoming videos. Okay, today was enough already. May the Lord give us joy in this land. Make it truly spiritual celebration of living through these holy days, of seeking the Lord, of growing in faith, of becoming more and more conscious of our love and our unique relationship with Christ.
 brothers and sisters. To meet Christ, to be in this relationship with him is more rare and more precious than you meet the king of United Kingdom, okay? Or someone else, president of United States or whoever. Meeting Christ, so few people met him. We need to appreciate this. We need to make this the core of our life.
 do everything for that to that so that for us christ is our everything may the lord give us grace may he give us blessing for this land and give us spiritual joy to be his witnesses i mean god bless
