 Dear brothers and sisters, we are now in the great land, we are in this desert as the Israelites were. And we often fail. In this time, the time when we are called to spiritual struggle with our old self, with the devil, with the world, it is most evident to us that we are so weak and that we are choosing mammon.
 not loyal to Christ in many ways. And today I want to talk about the core reason, because if we don't understand this reason, we don't understand how to change, what to do. And also it will give us a clue about the overall apostasy in this world and the coming of the age to come, of the second coming of Christ.
 Apostle Paul tells us that the whole world will apostatize. And after that, the son of sin, Antichrist, will come. And then we know that he will be overthrown by the Lord in his glorious second coming. Many people are now focused on what's going on in the world, on the war, and are trying to find out if this is the future.
 final war and if this is the coming of the kingdom of antichrist with all the other stuff digital currencies etc but it is much more relevant to us that we are part of this apostasy okay we should not just focus that someone somewhere some evil rulers or something else will will happen there
 land, we must see this apostasy, we must understand what it is and how to fight with it in order to be loyal to Christ, no matter what. And this apostasy, what is it? In essence, it begins with distrust, with doubt, with doubting God.
 And we saw that in the desert, in the desert when the Jews, they were tempting God. Okay. The biggest problem in the land is not that we are tempted, but is that we tempt God. Okay. So, that was, that event which happened in the desert with these Jews became the, the,
 example, if you will, the prefigure of all apostasies, okay? It was the prefigure of the betrayal of Judas, of the betrayal of Israel when they've rejected Christ and crucified him, okay? Murdering Messiah, okay? And also until the end of the world, okay? It will be one of the brightest examples of apostasy which happened,
 back then. And we'll see how Jesus overcame, because he had this temptation in the desert when he fasted for 40 days, as we do right now, okay? To a lesser extent, of course. But let us go back and see. So, this is the book of Exodus, chapter 17, verse 2 and 7, okay? Verse 2.
 And then verse 7.
 Okay, so this was the temptation. They said, well, if God is with us, if Moses, what you say, is true that he came, brought us here, why are we thirsty? He's supposed to give us whatever we need, drink and whatnot. Where is he? Maybe he's not with us. Maybe you're cheating us. Okay, what is this going on?
 the key factor, doubting, doubting God, okay? This temptation happened. And then this temptation appears so many times in the Old Testament, in the New Testament. We see it in the book of Numbers, in the book of Deuteronomy, in the Psalms, many times. And then the Lord himself says to God,
 devil, okay, when he is tempting him, he tells him, jump from this roof of, from the roof of the temple, and the angels will carry you, because it's written that he will not allow your leg to be broken. And he said, the scripture says,
 Do not test the Lord your God. Okay? Test, tempt. And that is quoting Deuteronomy chapter 6, 16, which tells, the Lord tells directly, do not tempt me as you have done it in the desert, in Massa. Do not do that. This is what makes me angry.
 This is a domination in my eyes, okay? I cannot stand that. If there is something that I hate, this is what I hate. When my own people are attempting me, doubting me, okay? And this is what we do, brothers and sisters. This is in the core of every betrayal, that we betray Christ. It's because we're doubting him, okay? And I'll come back to that. So this is the...
 core root reason for any failures during the Lent that we now experience. And this is also the reason why in the church as a whole there is lowering of love. There is less love than there should be, than there used to be. Because people are doubting God. People are blinded by mammon. We are not judging now nobody, okay?
 come back to this. Now, this doubting, we can see it in just the daily life, in our daily relationships with family, spouses doubting each other because one has secrets or is stubborn, another is doing something that he doesn't know, then he becomes doubting and it becomes like this
 cycle, which leads to divorce or at least a lack of love, lack of trust between them. Whenever there is some kind of breakup, it's usually because of loss of trust. Be it with your employer, be it with some organization, with a team, with anything, lack of trust. You're doubting people who you are with.
 You know, you're doubting that the relationship that you had is, okay, is honored on the other side. And this is behind all revolutions, okay? The devil is main revolutionary. This is behind that, from time of Cain, okay? This is the spirit of Cain, okay? Again, coming back to Cain. But today we're not talking about Cain. We're talking about these Jews in the desert.
 So the revolutions, you doubt the monarchy, you doubt the emperor, you think he has his own agenda and he's just using us, et cetera. Let us just rule ourselves, we just throw out. And then people become servants of another master, of devil himself. But that's another question.
 All the heresies are rooted in that. We don't trust God. We don't need Communical Councils. We just have Pope. Pope will tell us what to do. You're doubting God. You trust Pope. Because you see, doubting God, this temptation leads to another temptation. Which one? Idolatry. We will see that.
 So coming back to these examples of this doubting, we had a very clear example. I remember it so, so well. It's a pain, it's, you know, my big pain. We had, not in my church, I was still just a parishioner in another parish long time ago. And there was one young girl
 came to all the services and who has done all the fasting and she was reading the bible all the time uh okay very pious very uh okay truly loving um you know trying to be a good christian okay as much as she could uh but then she had she experienced
 big tragedy in her family, in her marriage. I won't go into details, but it was ruined very quickly. After a couple years of life, it was ruined not because of her. And then she doubted God. Because in her logic was that I do everything that you want, God. You want this, this, this. I do everything.
 help me in that moment when i needed you the most and you allowed this uh problem this calamity to happen with me my life is ruined where were you so maybe it's all fake i just throw this i i so she left the church okay after so many years of being very pious faithful she left the church okay maybe she didn't leave the faith okay she's still orthodox but she never goes to church anymore and
 She became, well, as all these people outside the church, okay? Materialistic, etc. I don't want to go into that. So, apparently, that's what happened. And this is what happened with the West, with all these heresies. Catholicism, Protestantism is not much better. It's worse, okay? It all became idolatry.
 Okay, practically speaking, it is idolatry. And we think about overcoming this. And the Lord himself has shown to us how it's done. Because when he was in the desert for 40 days, he was undoing all those temptations that Israelites were failing when they were 40 years in the desert.
 He was undoing those. So this second temptation, when the Lord told him to jump, he said, okay, don't tempt God. And later he said, okay, now you just bow to me and I will give you all this power, all these kingdoms of the earth, just bow to me. And he said, only to God do thou bow, because that is idolatry. So to bow to idols,
 is bowing to Satan. No matter whether this idol is the Pope or the Emperor or anything else or democracy or nationalism or anything can become an idol for you if you are Christian. And you become practically idolater. It could be your organization. It could be anything. Just a nice company,
 that you have in your church, okay? It can be anything. So they became idolaters because later they built this golden bull, okay? These Israelites. And there was also a domination in the eyes of the Lord. There was also temptation, okay? And it was logical that they'll do that because they've doubted him, okay? Usually we don't make this connection, but that's the connection.
 You're doubting God and you want something more tangible, more certain. So they had this bull that they were worshipping. And of course it's related to the pagan religion of that region. So they just practically became idolaters. So whenever we doubt God, that's gonna happen, brothers and sisters.
 Any sin is a temptation of God. You don't love him. And that's why you choose sin. You think that sin is going to give you joy. Because you don't find joy. You don't want the joy from God. You love money. That means you don't love grace of God. You love mammon. And you don't want Christ. Any complaint. You're complaining all day why it's raining. Why people are stupid. Why government.
 is corrupted sorry you are tempting god your complaint is complain against god there's grudges you are canine already you're far away from being son of christ any fear you're afraid that you lose your job that you will be hungry that you will i don't know recession is coming or something else is coming my insurance
 I don't have insurance against this, that. Antichrist is coming. Any fear that you have is temptation of God, is apostasy. One thing is to be knowledgeable, to be reasonable about your savings, about your, I don't know, planning for your family, etc. And another is to have fear. It's two different things. Must not mix them. Now you're not fasting because you think,
 don't have energy, if I don't eat meat, I don't drink milk. This is fear, this is... You're not trusting God. Be honest to yourself. Okay? Any attempt to give some kind of... to demand something from God. And tell, for example, you tell him, God, you have to give me job. If you don't, I will stop going to church. Or something else.
 Anything like that is tempting God. And this is what makes him the most upset about us. Any kind of attempt to have extra insurance. For example, if we're talking about mission, many people don't come because they say, yes, a mission is good, but I need some guarantees, I need some insurance. If I have it, then yes, I will go to mission. If you provide me stable salary, place,
 I don't know, to leave, this, this, this. Then I go. Okay? Sorry, it's apostasy. What are you going to be witnessing to people? Any failure to live up to the commandments of Christ. For example, some people work on Sundays. Because they think, I don't work, I will lose my job, I will be hungry, I will be miserable. So, God will forgive me, it's okay. I don't go to church, I go to work. Okay? Lack of trust.
 You don't trust him. You fail some minimal thing. Sorry, why are you expecting that he's going to be helping you or be with you? Any egoism. You're, oh, myself. If I don't care about myself, who's going to take care of me? So I need to, you know, protect myself against this, against that. Any kind of egoism is apostasy. And the Lord said that, okay, in that day, do not harden your hearts.
 and tempt God, your Lord. So, this is related to hardening our hearts. We're stiff. If I don't get my protection, my pay, my whatever, I'm... So, everything else, God, church, okay, it's not gonna run away, but this I have to make sure I have it. That is hardening of hearts, and that is doubting God.
 in the core of every sin of every apostasy brothers and sisters so now together with christ we have to overcome all these apostasies okay there were three okay uh the first one was with the food another one was with this checking testing you've got is gonna help you if you jump from that thing and the third power influence which you'll get it if you bow to
 Satan. All three. In different shapes and forms they come to us. And during the Lent it's actually not... Yes, we are tempted by Satan. But as a result we tempt God. Having been tempted, having failed, having listened to Satan we begin testing God. So the Great Lent becomes us testing God.
 not he him or whoever else is testing us okay so we must not do that brothers and sisters we must love our christ our lord and messiah above everyone above the whole world and unconditionally rely on him in doing what he wants not rely on him that he will give me everything i want of course not he will give you a cross that he will
 So people, they betray him very often because first they expect from him goodies. They expect from him, okay, food and whatever, protection, power, paganism. And then they are disappointed because, okay, he didn't give them their pagan stuff that they wanted. And now they don't want God like that. And that's what's happened with the Jews who rejected Christ.
 They did not want that kind of God, okay? As, let's say, you discover that your spouse is not what you've expected. You wanted her to, you know, to worship you, to, I don't know, work all day and, I don't know, give you some pleasure. But she is going to church and prays. You don't want a spouse like that. And you betray her. You say, I don't know, I'll find another one.
 with the Jews. They said, we don't want God like this. He gives us cause. He wants us to go suffer, but we want to, okay, power. Okay, we are the best chosen people. We rule the world. Okay, we want this kind of Messiah. So, this is why he is the stumbling stone. Stumble. They stumble there. And we must not stumble, brothers and sisters. We must.
 be built upon that rock. We must be Christians bearing the crosses that he gives us till the end with patience, unconditionally trusting him in everything we do, becoming his witnesses of his love, not having this love diminish, cease, choke, be choked. And that's the only way. This is the narrow path that he's calling us to follow.
 us in this truth in this confession not allow us to depart into heresy into apostasy into mamanism so that we may be truly his sons and daughters i mean i wish you a joyful land and fruitful spiritual journey i mean god bless brothers and sisters
