 Dear brothers and sisters, we are now in the middle of the Great Lent, and it is a good time to think about the Lord's coming, the final judgment. In front of us is the resurrection, the Pascha, the coming of the age to come. And it is now good to think about what does it mean and what does it take to reach there.
 What is the connection between the Lord's first coming, his incarnation, his preaching, his crucifixion, and his second coming? What is the connection between his resurrection and the final resurrection of everyone? This will help us understand where we are and what is going on in this world.
 own picture, into this spectacle, into this cave, if you will, of Plato, okay, to tell you that this is the reality. What you hear in the news, what is happening, if you don't believe, go outside and it will confirm. You see, we are all brought into that spectacle, into that game, okay? And once we become part of that game, we are done, okay? But the Lord said,
 don't belong to this world. To you, I will open the true reality. Because what is truly real is not what we just can touch and smell. No. Apostle Paul in Epistle to Hebrews, he tells us that the real things are those which are heavenly. What are the heavenly? Heavenly means in the heavens? No. Because the Lord's coming is not only,
 in flesh, and then second coming, we say second coming. Actually, the coming on the clouds that we're all waiting for, okay, at the last day, at the day of judgment, on the day of resurrection, that coming is third coming, the third coming. And the Lord's second coming is in the Holy Church. This is the understanding that the Holy Fathers are giving to us, that his first coming was
 in flesh and he had the disciples following him but these disciples they could not really understand everything they could not take up their cross so when he said you will take up cross and follow me that was said to the ones who will receive the Holy Spirit in the Pentecost because it is only after Pentecost that Christ
 came into this union with them. Before that, they could just listen to him, listen to what he says. Maybe study something, read books. But they could not be united with him. That became possible only after the Pentecost. Because he said that whoever is not born of water and the Spirit will have no life. So all of them had to be born again. In order to what? In order for him to live in them.
 The apostle Paul, he says, it's not me living, it's Christ living in me. And whoever is baptized in Christ has put on Christ. But for us, this becomes some nice teaching, but not the reality that we live every day. Because the devil is trying to persuade everyone that, well, I'm talking about people who believe in Christ, that it's later, he will come again, yes.
 We're just waiting. He was here, yes. He will come again, yes. But now what? Now we're waiting and we need to do something. No. Now is the time of the gospel, brothers and sisters. Now is the time of the second gospel. The first gospel was when the Lord himself was walking in his body here among people. But the second gospel is when he's walking in the church.
 or some, no. But in the whole church, he is incarnate. The word of God is incarnate and it takes on bodies of people who love him and he walks around and he does what he wants to do. This is the miracle that's going on. Okay, and today I want to, I want to go together with you through what does it imply and what does it tell us about the enmity,
 that there is between devil and Christ that we witness, we can also see in the world how it's exposed, okay? And where are we going and how are we going to get there and why we have all the problems both in the world and also in the church with the apostasy and things will be falling in place, brothers and sisters.
 the old testament in the old testament there was this covenant with the people of israel which became a shadow of the former of the following covenant that will be between christ and the lord and christ himself became the second moses so this first testament this first testament with the people of israel
 He destroyed this temple because that was what meant that he is with the people of Israel and that this covenant is still valid. And now that covenant was destroyed. First, they disobeyed, but he gave them time to repent. And when they had not, he just withdrew everything. This doesn't mean that the Old Testament we don't need. It's not Bible, we throw it out. Of course not.
 only when it's understood through the New Testament. It becomes part of the New Testament, if you will. So this is why all these commandments were explained by Christ in this spiritual way. And only like that they can be understood for us. They can be valid for us. They have any sense. And not literally. I mean, not in the sense that, okay, now we have to do all this blood, these sacrifices,
 the circumcision and all that. Okay, so in the same way as the Old Testament could be broken and was broken and was abolished and the people of Israel, they lost this sonship and all the blessings that God gave them once. And now all these blessings, they were transferred to the sons of the Messiah, of God, who are the new Israel.
 This is why the old Israel who was betrayed, he became enemy. They became tool of the Satan who has enmity against the sons of God. Not all Jews, of course. And we see that as Christians, we also can break and we do break the covenant that Lord has established with us.
 and we lose Lord's presence, Lord's guidance, and we slip into apostasy and into this heretical understanding of what it means to be a Christian. And this is why not only heretics, they have this apostatic understanding of the separation and waiting for something later, but now you just can read the books and study theology and this is all you can do. Or maybe you go into some crazy prayer practice,
 because you want to feel something, you want to drive. But even in the true church, most people received this heretic understanding. Without formally leaving the church, they became, we became, most of us, unfortunately, we became this mindset. And this is why this testimony is so weak. This is why people who truly love Christ are so few.
 able to do so many things and get away with it. Okay. So, the goal of the second coming is to let the whole world be put through the gospel. The whole world is being tested and have to go through this judgment, through this meeting with the Lord, through this opportunity to choose Christ.
 And only after that can this world end. This is why the gospel has to be preached throughout all nations. It all makes perfect sense, brothers and sisters. If we look at it from this point of view, of the second coming, which is going on right now, it makes perfect sense. And also, this helps us to expose this enmity. Because if you remember, when the Lord, he was preaching, once he said that, you want to kill me.
 Sons of Abraham did not want to kill me and they said who wants to kill you maybe you have demon Where you're possessed why you're saying these things everything is fine. We come we listen to you who wants to kill you so this This is the spirit of devil because he wants to pretend that nothing nothing no enmity and Slowly sneak into your heart like the snake going into the hearts of men enslaving them and
 As soon as he had the opportunity, he showed his real face. And they condemned, crucified Christ. And the same thing happens now. Whenever he has this opportunity, there is a big tribulation. He's trying to destroy the church. That was in the first centuries of Christianity. That was in the 20th century. Until now, in many places, we have that. Direct persecution.
 Just destroy those people, torture them, make them reject Christ in any way, because there is opportunity to do that, okay? And also establish those regimes which prevent the church from growing, like we have in China and in many other communist and Muslim countries and Hindu countries, okay? They forbid mission. Why? We ask, why? What are we doing?
 Are we harming anyone? Are we calling for what? For revolution or something? Or brainwashing people? Why all other countries allow it and you don't? You say that we are criminals if we do mission. Why? They have no answer. The answer is that there is devil. There is this spirit behind it. And he will never tell you the real reason for that. And we suffer quite a lot because of this. Here in China and like everywhere.
 Nepal, many places. So we just need to be aware of that spirit of worldliness, of that enmity which is out there. And this enmity, you see, devil is behind it. Who is devil? Devil is incapable of doing anything against God and against people who are with God. He cannot do anything. He is so weak.
 depart from God, they become his instruments, and he is able to harm them, to either use them or to destroy them. Okay? So sometimes he is using them. He is using these mammon worshippers for building the Babylon, for building his kingdom on earth to control the whole world. They need to build that. It's a destruction through building. It's a building of prison.
 of concentration camp, of Babylon, of seduction, temptation, all kinds of evil, godlessness, and also direct destruction. And he is using that so much. All these wars. Why so people die? Because devil, he hates everyone. He hates everyone. He has no friends. If you want to sin and become his friend, you will never become his friend. He will want to destroy you. That's his goal.
 To destroy your soul, first of all, not your body. Your body is the second thing. So, Apostle Paul, he says, the plans of devil are not unknown to us. We know what he wants. We know what he does, what his plans are. And we are here to spoil them. And each of us can spoil them. And all of us are called to be what? To be those priests who went around Jericho
 blowing into those trumpets, and those walls collapsed. And the people also with the priests shouting. Some people become missionaries, some people become priests, some people just witness Christ through their life. And all of that will make Babylon collapse. And it's always collapsing, collapsing, collapsing. So don't think that all his plans are going smoothly and everything is successful. Not everything.
 And this is why he's so nervous. Because many things for him, he's got super huge delays in his schedule that he was planning to accomplish. So, brothers and sisters, we do need to be with the Lord. We need to learn how to be with the Lord. There is a big question, of course, why there are so few people who truly love Christ,
 Christ and take part in this second coming. So few. There are also very few followers of Christ when he came. Among millions of people in Israel, just maybe, I don't know, a couple hundred at most. But usually it was just maybe 12, I don't know, 15, 20 people who were loyal to him, following him all the time.
 few. So, don't be surprised if now we have so few people. What about others? Others have an opportunity. Others have an opportunity. And others are waiting for us to tell them what it means to live with the incarnated Christ. Okay. So, the Lord is hidden. As back then, most people, they saw a man. Man walking around. Yes, smart teacher. That's it.
 They didn't see Messiah. They didn't understand he's Messiah. The same thing happens now. Many people saw Orthodox Church. It's just one of many churches. Maybe different chanting, different decoration, but it's just one of those thousands of churches. They don't see it. You have to search for truth with your whole heart and go through great repentance to discover that it is the Christ incarnate in this world now accomplishing his goal.
 him respond to his love and become part of this great agenda and not part of this crazy spectacle that is going on in this world let us set the right priorities brothers sisters now is the great land is the time is the time to reconcile with the lord to cling to him with all our heart okay not to be afraid of anything he was not himself and most importantly to love cross to
 Love the cross. Unlike the whole pagan world. And all the heretic world. And some of the orthodox world. Like this world. Become mammon worshippers. We don't want to be that. Okay. And we are much more blessed than the apostles. The apostles were more blessed than the Old Testament prophets and patriarchs. We read about that in the gospel. But the apostles after the Pentecost.
 And all the Christians who receive the Holy Spirit in their own Pentecost, they are much more blessed than even the apostles at the time of Christ's life when they worked with him. We now are much more together with God than they were back then. Or at least we can be. Maybe we are not right now in the moment, but we can be.
 difficult questions, question. We recall the prophet in the Old Testament, he said, why everybody worships Baal? Why? And they even me, only me is loyal to the Lord. I am loyal and they want to kill me also. So don't be surprised if people who love Christ are so few and there aren't many around you and all your family does not want to live with Christ, to choose,
 truth but always choose the lie okay may the lord help us give us this grace okay keep on keep us in his holiness uh teach us humbleness teach us true prayer uh testimony for his name and to value you see value every day that he gives to us because this day is the is we write the
 What is going on right now is writing of the gospel, okay, because this is the Lord's second coming going on right now, taking place. May the Lord give us this joy, this strength, this decisiveness to go with him to our own Golgotha all the way through and to witness this love to the whole world and the truth so that everyone,
 may choose the Savior, may choose this joyful invitation to accept this invitation into His blessed kingdom. May the Lord be with all of you, and may He help us on this path towards the holy week of passion, which is coming in two weeks, I mean. God bless, brothers and sisters.
