 Dear brothers and sisters, we approach the Passion Week, and recently I had a video on the cross. Today I want to say about the death and resurrection. Especially now, when the world is in war, there is war in many places, there is so much misunderstanding. And people either think that it's done by Satan, or people say,
 that it's allowed by God to punish sinners. Other people think it's just people have their some political agenda, et cetera. Well, today I'm not going to be talking about politics. Today I want to delve into the mystery of relationship between death and life.
 in the sense that there appears to be some use of death for God. So for example, when he allowed every firstborn to be dead in Egypt, he saved the families of Jews, Israelites, but the angel of the Lord, he came and he slaughtered all those firstborn of the Egyptians,
 animals and people, and even son of Pharaoh. And also in other places in Bible, we read that he's punishing also Israelites in some place, 70,000 were killed by God. It's just directly said, God came and killed. And when the prophet Isaiah was in Jerusalem and Jerusalem was attacked by Assyrians,
 Then God came and protected the city, and 185,000 of those Assyrians just fell dead instantly, okay? And it was the whole surrounding covered with corpses, okay? We read about things like this, and we wonder what is going on, and how is this somehow related to what's going on right now with this world war?
 much sin with so much war with so much idolatry atheism and everything else okay many people are now losing faith because of that because they don't fight the answer okay and this brings us to this topic of death okay and in the psalms we read that for thy sake we are murdered every day and we
 in the sheep that are destined to slaughter. This is said by Prophet David on behalf of all Israelites. He's representing them all, people of God. And of course, we see this in the epistle of Paul when he talks about being crucified for this world, and this world is crucified for me, and that I died for this world and I live for Christ.
 and many other places. And this also is connected with the cross, with the mystery of the cross. I need to say that if we, as a church of Christ, who is life, we want to understand life, to receive life, we need to understand death. And we need to be facing the death. We need to be the ones who are most outspoken and direct
 about all which is related to death, okay? And not just turn away and say, no, no, we pretend we don't know, we don't care. We just, hallelujah, everything is good. Everything is nice. Well, this was just a blindness, okay? This is just blindness. We read also that he is both the one who gives life and who takes life, okay? We read many things, okay?
 So we need to understand what was that angel who brought about death. In the Proverbs, we also read, sorry, it's in the wisdom, wisdom of Solomon, chapter 18, verse 15, that the word of God comes down and everything is the value of death. It brings death. It's amazing. The word of God should bring life. Why does it bring death?
 Well, the thing is that the word of God brings judgment. And if your life is in the realm of death, already you chose darkness, then it's just a matter of time that your body is going to die. And in order to prevent you from greater sin, you and your descendants and the whole world, God may allow your body to die sooner. And in the New Testament we read,
 that there was this Anania who lied to the Holy Spirit and he fell dead immediately. What kind of God is this? And how is this different from, you know, terrorist who goes and blows up someone? Well, it does differ. It does differ because the outcome of the death was that he himself would not commit even greater sins because he was already on that path of sin.
 Also, the whole church was in fear and they all understood that you cannot be, you cannot lie to God, to the Holy Spirit, okay? So, what we can say is that God, when he comes, this is why it's called the great judgment, when he comes again, okay? It's called also judgment. It brings this, okay? It brings this.
 It divides the two things. What does not belong to him, it's burnt away as grass. So we need to be ready for that, brothers and sisters. The closer we will be coming to Christ, the more this cross, which is bringing pain, which is bringing ability to face the evil, will be with us. And we need to be expecting.
 to have greater challenges, to have greater pains and sorrows, because we say we are willing to take up the cross, so that we can live for Christ, and that our old self can die. We are willing to take up this cross and follow him. So, this is something that is paradox. It seems to be paradox. That we choose cross, which is death,
 We love cross, which is death, but we hate sin, which brings about death. This is paradox, okay? But this is what it is, okay? This is what is true. And there comes also a question that if the Lord took upon himself all this evil, which was an outcome of sin, that's why he was betrayed and tormented,
 tortured and he died he was killed on the cross uh should we just say hallelujah we are saved everything is fine now it's everything is fine what what death what sin this is not how it works because we are relieved from our sin we are healed by the grace of the lord however we need to be the same as he is okay we need to follow in his footsteps
 means that as he said that they hated me, they will hate you. They were persecuting me, they will persecute you. And you will be taken into their synagogues and trials and they will beat you and kill some of you. He told that to his apostles and disciples if they choose to go along with him. So it's not going to be easy, he said.
 Yes, I'm healing you. Because if I would not die on the cross, you would be just facing all the outcomes of sin. You would be just getting deeper into darkness and die and that's it. But with me, you receive life. You receive life. But at the same time, you need to be facing death. Facing all this evil, all this harm, all this pain and suffering that this world has to bring.
 including yourself, as long as your old man has not died yet. Okay, so we need also to judge, to judge by the outcome. Okay, there is, we can come back to this question. So let's say now we have big war going on. Who is behind this war? Is it the angel of Lord who is behind it? Who is, okay, same angel who made those Egyptian firstborn dead?
 Okay? Is it him who is operating? Or it's Satan who is operating? Or it's none? Both are just watching. Okay? And it's people. Because of whom? Netanyahu. Okay, all those people. Because of them. And God is just watching. And Satan is just watching. Well, it's neither of these. Okay? It's neither of these. Okay, we judge from the outcome.
 For devil, the war is just means to bring people away from God. To bring people to despondency, to blasphemy, to lack of faith. And I would tell you that most people as a result of these wars, they estranged themselves. Even if they were at some point not too far.
 They are much further away. They say, what kind of God? We don't need this God. We don't need this Christianity. We don't need all this. Most people become like this. Even former Christians. Even former Orthodox Christians. But at the same time, there is a small minority that is discovering that it's only with Christ that we can live. That without him, everything else is losing its meaning.
 And that this sin and evil become so outspoken, so manifest, that now we need to learn the lesson and we need to be different than that. Live differently than that. Some people come to this. So we can say that these wars, I would say they are motivated by Satan. They are motivated.
 by this destroyer, by this enemy of mankind. However, it is also allowed by God. It is also allowed by God first because he can see how far away people are. And Apostle Paul is telling us that in the end of times, people will become so bad. It's going to be terrible. Okay. The Lord sees all that and he allows all these wars to happen. Okay.
 As a result, not only some sin is going to be stopped by that, but also that some people will be saved and will be much more conscious of their faith and take up their cross and follow him. Okay? So, these are just some thoughts I want to share with you, which are coming from the scripture, which are coming from
 path that we are going through during this great land. And I really hope that every one of us asks questions. We talk to Christ. He is part of... He is the source of answers for us. Our life should become dialogue with Christ. He should become everything for us. Only like that we are facing Him. Anything else is looking somewhere else.
 else, there will be idols, and you will become more and more distracted by those idols, okay? It could be even religion, even in the church, okay? You can be distracted by something else and not be truly with Christ, okay? And you will have religion replacing faith. So, let us be true sons of the New Testament.
 of patience, testament of forgiveness, of great mercy that the Lord also showed to all. Many things are different than used to be in the Old Testament when humanity was still quite ignorant and the Lord hasn't come yet, hasn't been sacrificed on the cross yet. But now the times are very different
 learn the lessons of the Old Testament in the right way, okay? Because now too many people, they just look at the Holy Scripture and they just invent, okay, distract, deceived by Satan and have all kinds of interpretation of the Scripture. And this is not our path, brothers and sisters, okay? Let us trust, have trust in the Lord.
 Okay. That he is. Okay. He is in this world. He is guiding this world. Okay. But he doesn't always intervene. Okay. He intervenes only when he really finds that necessary. That now I intervene. And in some ways. Okay. Sometimes he intervenes and he allows some people to die. Sometimes he intervenes to protect his faithful. So that they don't die.
 supposed to die, be killed. All this is also possible. But this is not what we ourselves are mainly concerned with. We are concerned with truly taking up our cross and following Christ and being ready to receive this pain. This pain that the cross is bringing. It's not easy. But in this pain we will receive the great joy of
 being his true disciples and following him in every way. May the Lord's blessing and grace be upon all of us, that we stand in truth, that we would not be given over to Satan, as Apostle Paul is saying, that we decided we give these people over to Satan. No, we don't want that. We want to stand in faith, stand in Christ.
 in love, in humility, in prayer, and in great compassion towards everyone who is suffering, who is deceived, who is in anger. And like this, we will be treating people the same way as God does. May the Lord's blessing and joy and mercy be with everyone. Amen. God bless.
