 Dear brothers and sisters, we are entering the Passion Week and it's time to think deeply about the Cross and what does it mean for us. Why the Lord had to suffer all these passions and die in order to give us life. This mystery of the Cross is the one that we have to live through in order to become true disciples of Christ.
 salvation the life that is given to us on the cross and today i will not talk about the fake christianity where there is no cross all heresies of course they would have many crosses everywhere but they refuse to take up the cross and follow christ okay because if it's enough just to believe and hallelujah you are saved
 then there is no need to take up the cross and follow him. There is no need to live like him, as Apostle Paul says, be like me, because I am like Christ in everything, including taking up the cross. It is only if we follow in the footsteps of our Lord that can we truly be his disciples.
 about the problem with our misunderstanding or refusing of taking the cross within the Church, within the true Church of Christ. And also I want to say a few words about the whole end of the world, because this is also a Golgotha in the sense of coming closer to the return of the Lord and to the entrance into life,
 resurrection in life. So there is this union between the end of days of the life of Christ on this earth and the end of days of this world. And this is the time that we are now experiencing. And it is so important, as we will see, to have the right spiritual understanding and attitude towards the things which
 happening, which are going on, and this big deception that we live in today. Well, first of all, I want to begin with going back to that time, to that time when the Lord was in his last week of his life in this world, okay? And when he was coming, when he was approaching Golgotha, there are different groups, okay? There were these people who wanted to kill him.
 Those leaders and high priests who had this desire for a long time, he was an obstacle. He was an obstacle to get rid of, to just do away with. And I would say that now there are people like that who want to either destroy as many humans as they can or enslave them and have the joyful and happy life.
 slaves okay that was the dream of the leaders of israel in those days who wanted to enslave the whole world and they were waiting for such messiah to come and to subdue all nations under israel politically economically ideologically etc and this is going on right now okay big time this is their dream this is their utopia okay and they're aiming at that dream and some go want to get there through
 some socialism, okay? I won't go deep into that, okay? But this spirit is around, okay? And there were those just common Jews, okay? Just common Jews who just wanted ordinary life, okay? And now they say, okay, this Jesus is coming, he's preaching something which is not so easy to follow.
 Let's just together with those leaders just cry that he would be crucified and we come back to our normal life. There were also the apostles who were not yet enlightened and who were not yet transformed by the Holy Spirit. So these apostles, they were like Peter. You remember the Lord told him that I will be killed very soon.
 No, no, no, we have another plan. Let's do it in another way. You don't have to be killed here, okay? And the Lord told him, go behind me, Satan. It means, okay, go away, okay? Shut up, Satan, okay? You are the one who is opposing the plan of God and think only about what is worldly that humans care about
 their their corpse to feed their corpse to to to enjoy this worldly life okay so there was also the attitude of christ himself and at that point it was only him who had that attitude and that attitude was that he said this is what i came for this cross this golgotha this hardship this death this is what i came for
 the same when we experience hardships, when we experience injustice, when we have this, we freely take upon ourselves this fasting. Now we are, we've ended the Great Lent. It's been for six weeks and there is this last week, the Passion Week. It's not actually Great Lent, it's after the Great Lent, okay? And this Passion Week, what is our attitude?
 towards this Passion Week. Are we thinking in our head, well, hopefully it's gonna be over very soon, just let us wait another six days and we can eat and drink and go wherever we want and watch movies that we like, etc. Just go back to normal life. Well, then we are among those Jews, okay, who cried crucify. Just let us finish all this and go back to normal life that nobody is bothering us with anything.
 or we are together with christ and we say this time is what we are for we became christians we became his followers this is the time this is just small small experience of what our whole life is all about sacrificing ourselves for the sake of christ who will not perish his soul for my name's sake he will not
 gain the soul. He will not gain life. And the seed, unless it dies, it cannot give life. So, if we want to be reborn and have life in Christ, we have to die. We have to die. We have to take up the cross. We have to have our mortal self die. And our selfishness, our sins, our attachment, and everything else that belongs to this mamanistic world,
 has to die, has to be crucified. And only then we can be born in Christ and gain the true life. So this time of the Great Lent and Passion Week is the most joyful life because it gives us the most clear vision and feeling and experience of what our Christianity is all about. And after, even when it's over, the Lent is over, we want to be preserved in this spiritual life.
 state and conscience and vigilance. So this is the key. This is a very important key, which will tell us if we are truly Christians or not yet, or we are still far away and just hoping to be there one day. Okay. And of course, this notion of dying in order to have something else born, it's, we can see it in the regular life. Okay. We can see it in regular life. For example,
 to become professional uh i don't know professional um chanter let's say you will have to kill a lot of time chanting all the time or you want to let's say be a professor you have to kill maybe 10 or more years of your life studying and your your savings your money in order to become okay but then you have this new life new
 new possibilities as a professor, okay? And anything else. You want to give, you have children, okay? You have to have this more life in your family. You need to sacrifice your time, your health, many things, money. It is killed so that something else is born, okay? This is a simple idea, okay? But in the daily life examples,
 It gives you, let's say, it gives you the earthly fruits, okay? And the apostle says, whoever sows earthly stuff, he will gain earthly fruits. But whoever sows in the life eternal, he will gain the incorruptible life. He will gain the Holy Spirit, okay? So what are we sowing? Where do we throw our seeds into, okay?
 become Christian, you may have to sacrifice your family, because they will not understand why is you doing this, okay? Or why you, let's say, you become a priest, or a monk, or a missionary, and go somewhere else, you sacrifice many things, your life, your final property, your family, but you bring fruit to the Lord, okay? And the spiritual life is the same.
 If you sacrifice your passions, your sins and your desires and your ideas very often, but you become a spiritual person. You gain the life of spirit. Okay, so this is some mystery of exchange. Okay, you have to die. If nothing dies, if you just remain, if you just live, you just want to live alone and you just have peaceful life day after day
 bother and just have some little compartment for your faith you put the candle you you do what you're supposed to do and but you have your mamanistic barbaric consumerism hedonistic life don't fool yourself this is nothing okay and we have many many people like this in the church also okay so um having said this
 I want to say a few words about the end of the world that we are coming into, that we are in already, okay? After Christ, after his ascension, this is the time. This is the time of the end of the world, and it's just getting closer and closer, okay? And there are different ways of looking at it, okay? One way, as I already said, is the way of those satanists who make it happen, okay? Well, not only them, but for them it is the goal.
 And there is, of course, this big number of people, this general consumer society, who just go along. And they buy into whatever those people say. They say, OK, now we need democracy. OK, we go for democracy. We need to have socialism. We need to do this war. OK, we go to war. Because they trust in the social progress.
 science, and everything will be good and bright future, etc. And in the process, they are either killed or enslaved, okay? And this is what's going on, and it's going to be bigger and bigger, okay? There are also some people who don't like it, okay? Who don't like all this stuff with the upcoming slavery and all this digital control, okay? All other stuff, okay? They don't like the brainwashing that's going on, etc.
 But what their goal is, ultimately, is just to let them alone. Leave me alone. I just want to have my life as I want. Okay? Earthly life. This aim is very, very earthly also. Okay? It seems like it's a challenge. We are against the flow, etc. However, it is not spiritual. Okay?
 It is just, you know, it's the mindset of those former slaves or peasants, okay, who gain this freedom from their master. And now they're running around with this freedom like crazy, okay? These libertarians, okay? And they just don't want anyone to take their freedom. But they have the same hedonistic mindset.
 also doomed. And of course they don't want Christ. And there are people who truly love Christ and the cross, who are very few. And these people, they would see things differently. They would see things as two things happening at the same time. The whole world is choosing
 dipping into deception, okay, apostasy, doesn't want God, and it's getting worse and worse. And this control, and they're happy about it, most of them, and there is this control of this Antichrist coming, approaching, okay? And at the same time, this is making life harder, okay, spiritual life especially,
 harder as it was with Christ in the last days before he was killed. It was getting harder and harder day by day. Okay, but what he came for, the Golgotha, is getting closer and closer. And the resurrection, the completion of the mission is also getting closer. So for the church as a whole, for the church of those who are in Christ, who are truly loving Christ and his cross,
 or getting closer. And this is why things are getting harder. I don't know if you can understand that. But this darkness is getting worse because it becomes more and more evident that people choose either this or the other. So with most people choosing this other thing, of course, it's a pain. It's a great sorrow. It's a great sorrow for the church, for the true church,
 those who love Christ, who live in him. And we need to aim for that. We should not aim for easy things, okay? Only if we can treat this Passion Week in the way that I've just described, only then we can see things in the world through these eyes, through eyes of Christ, through eyes of the true church who loves him, who lives for him, who is waiting him and having full trust in him, okay?
 So don't think, oh, it's going to be over and relax and I just have my life and everything is going to be fine. Well, then you might as well choose a fake church. Why bother staying in the right church of Christ if that's your goal? So the last thing also I want to just briefly mention is we can also go back to the mind of Christ, to the mind of Christ before Golgotha, okay?
 You can imagine how outspoken he was. Because he knew. He knows. Let's say you know that in 2-3 days someone is going to come and kill you. People are coming right here in your apartment. And they will kill you for sure. You know that. Well, all of us, I think, 99% will run away. As far as they can. Australia, I don't know. New Zealand.
 Solomon Island, somewhere far away where they cannot find you, right? Because it's not that you die of sickness. No, you will die because somebody is going to take your life. But he stays, okay? He stays. He knows that they were gonna walk in and kill him, okay? And torture him, not just kill. He stays and you can think about his perception of the world, okay? Would he be caring so much about this
 let's say, a very polite way of treating these Pharisees when he wants to tell them that they are worshipping the golden calf instead of God when they trade in the temple. Of course not. He just goes, he makes this, he just, the whip, and he just chases them out. Okay? He is completely outspoken. And he tells his disciples about the,
 end of the world, because it's coming, because it's directly related to his end of days, his last few days in his life, okay? And you can think about your objectives in life, about your goals, about the way you treat people, etc., etc., through these eyes. Would you have all those goals? Because we are running every day, morning till night, because we have all those mamanistic goals.
 Or we are wasting our time in slothfulness, despondency, laziness, because we don't care. Or what? But if we look at this through the eyes of the Lord in these last few days of his life, many idols will be crushed in our priority list that we have. Many things will change. And this is the way we have to look at things, brothers and sisters.
 Don't be attached to anything in this world. Don't make fake objectives in your life. Don't set these fake goals. Don't waste time. When you have few days left, you don't waste your time. You don't think about vacations and, I don't know, some glory, winning some competitions, etc., etc. No, you don't think about those because it's just few days left, okay?
 days decide everything. So may the Lord give us such mind. May he give us the strength, the courage. May he give us this vigilance, the spiritual vigilance to see what is, what does matter, what is of value in his eyes. And may he make us partakers of this life, of this life of resurrection, of this truth, of this testimony,
 for the truth that he makes, that our lives may be blessed by him and that he may guide us. He may give us the true, the right heart to see things, to do things and the right heart when we pray and that we become these living sacrifices to him as he was when he went up on the cross in Golgotha.
 May the Lord give us this blessing and strengthen us in His truth. Amen. God bless, brothers and sisters. May you have rich spiritual fruits in the Passion Week. Amen. God bless.
