 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. We celebrate the Lord's holy resurrection. In the church, we call this feast, the feast of the feasts, the Holy Pascha. Well, the Holy Pascha is not only the resurrection of Christ. It's the whole offering which has been made by Him, the whole sacrifice. And it begins much earlier. It begins from Him coming to this world.
 On the Christmas, we say it's Second Pascha, Winter Pascha. He is coming to this world and humbling himself, being made ready for this sacrifice. And his whole life is his offering himself to the Lord in his ministry. In this humbleness that the Lord takes upon himself. And then he takes these sufferings.
 And he knows that the will of God, the Father, is that he would be nailed to the cross and die for the sake of life of everyone else, of those who will receive this and who will follow him. And then he is risen on the third day. And then he ascends in glory at the right hand of the Father, which will celebrate at
 of the Lord. So, all of this is this sacrifice of the Lord. And now, at this time of Pascha, it's so important for us to understand what does this bring. Why is this radically different from all other religions' sacrifices, both pagan and the Jewish? Because now it's very popular to say, what is the same? This is same, this is similar,
 all this spirit of ecumenism, this spirit of paganism, which does not know the revelation of God, which is blind, for which is just some phenomenon, some ideas, but it doesn't receive the true life of Christ. If you haven't ever met him, that's how you think, that's what your mind is. But we ask him to reveal himself to us. And this revelation is accomplished,
 the most at this Pascha, because this is him taking this resurrected body and entering into the heavens, and thereby opening up to all of us this path to the heavens. And through this path, the Lord, the wonderful and supernatural Lord comes, and there is establishment of this new covenant. And this is the beginning,
 of the new era of Messiah, the new reality. Well, those scholars who study religion and philosophy, including such haters of Christianity like Engels, they say that Christianity went into the sharp contrast with all the religions and philosophies of the time. For us, this may not be so evident, because now we have so many different sects, Christian sects,
 And it may seem like they are all, okay, some kind of teaching, okay, some kind of practice. So, not that much different from other religions. Also have some scripture, have some traditions, have some dogmas, regulations, rituals. Well, this is not what the Christianity is in its core and in its essence, the true Christianity. I'm not talking about all this paganized Christianity. So, what was this sharp contrast?
 The essence of the faith is the sacrifice of Christ, is the resurrection, is the Pascha, which we celebrate now. And this essence is completely different from all other sacrifices, okay? Both pagan and Jewish. This is why Saint Apostle Paul, he said that for pagans, this is madness. The cross is madness.
 And for the Jews, it's a stumbling stone. So, why is this madness? Well, for pagans, sacrifice was a form of exchange. They sacrificed something to those gods, and they could understand the logic of those gods. And they've observed, they've studied how those spirits, those demons, how they behave.
 let's say, part of the harvest, they give it to them. We have it here in Taiwan till now. There are the hungry ghosts and you need to feed them with paper money and with other stuff, okay? With fruits and et cetera, okay? So you can fully understand. They are like you and me, okay? Like your neighbors, okay? You need to have good relationships with your neighbors.
 It's very carnal logic. And this is what the pagan sacrifice is all about. It might have had some kind of revelation at some point or some kind of primordial memory about the ones had relationship with God in paradise, but it was surrounded and distorted to such a degree that you don't recognize it anymore.
 thing. Completely worldly, carnal, and you understand it just by your carnal mind, your logic. So for them it was completely different. Then let's talk about the Jewish sacrifice at the time of Old Testament. Those sacrifices, they were revealed by God how they should do them. So they had more truth to them. However, they were only shades of what is
 is the real sacrifice, the eternal sacrifice, which will be done once and forever by Jesus Christ. So their sacrifices that they had this nature that it's not about exchange, but it's about purification, cleansing, okay, through blood or through other, where our sins or our uncleanness will be redeemed, will be revealed,
 Removed. And we will come into some communication. Lord will listen to our prayer. And these things, they were true. Because God is establishing his covenant through sacrifice. So, all sacrifices, all covenants must be stamped, sealed by blood. And this was so in the Old Testament.
 in the time of Abraham, in the time of Moses, in the time of all temple time of the Israelites. And this sacrifice had to be repeated many times. It could not truly forgive your sins, bring to this forgiveness of your sins. It could not truly save you because it lacked
 The Lord has not yet come and has not yet sacrificed himself on the cross. Okay, so all of that had to be abolished. And now the new sacrifice, how is it different? Why is it stumbling block for the Jews? Because it's God himself who came to sacrifice himself. And that was something completely mind-blowing. And the Jews, they said, what kind of God is this?
 that he allows everybody to spit on him and put him on the cross with such shame and misery, and he fails. We were supposed to be rich and powerful, but now he just dies on the cross. What kind of God is this? So this was a big stumbling block for them, okay? And they were smashed against this rock, as the Lord himself said. So they don't have,
 eternal sacrifice, which was done once and for all, and doesn't need to be repeated. Okay? This was also mind-blowing. How? You were doing the sacrifices, now you don't have to? Okay? Now it's all over? So what do we do? It was all about to do something. Okay? Do some ritual, some... You need to love Christ. You need to take up your cross and follow him. You need to sacrifice yourself in the same way that he has sacrificed himself. Okay? Not like the Protestants who say that, oh, already,
 done so oh hallelujah we just partake of these fruits of his sacrifice but he himself said whoever wants to be my disciples let him take his cross and follow me to where to Golgotha to be what to be sacrificed crucified no no no no no this is because it's also paganism it's both paganism and judaism okay but it's not christianity okay and the big problem with the catholicism also because
 In the sacrifice, you need to submit your will to God, to will of God the Father. And it may be not what you want. So you have to submit your will. The Lord has to submit himself to be crucified on the cross. But people don't want that. So they submit their will to what? To the Pope. And he will tell them what to do. To go do crusades, to do this, to do that. No need to submit yourself to God. It's not that difficult, he said.
 Just recognize me as Vicar and listen to me. And, okay, have any questions, come ask me instead of asking God. So this created this fake Christianity, okay? And people who are believing into some idea of God there, okay? But they don't have this revelation, this life that he gives in the resurrection, what we celebrate right now. They don't have it.
 is such a great pain because of their inability to be driven by the Holy Spirit, having been submitted themselves to that vicar. Okay, so now we need to think deeply about what has been done by Christ. Because for most of us, for a lot of Orthodox, unfortunately, it's not much better, sometimes worse.
 Okay, it's time that, okay, it's Pascha, we give presents to each other, we have some celebration, what we eat, we eat this kulich, we eat some Paschal food, eggs, you know, fun. Not much different from, let's say, I don't know, some other New Year's celebration or something else, but maybe even less.
 what Christ has done and how we put it into our lives. If we truly want to be his children, restore the sonship and gain this true life. As I said, first, he begins with humbling himself. For us, it means repentance. We need to recognize that I'm not the best. I'm not, I'm the worst actually. And I don't have any, any right to the kingdom of God because I'm,
 I am betrayer, I have sinned. So we humble ourselves. This is why the beginning of the gospel is repentance. Repent and believe in the gospel. Otherwise, you cannot follow. So after that, we dedicate ourselves to Christ. So the sacrifice is brought down and dedicated.
 the use in this world sometimes. From many different sheep, one sheep is taken down to the Lord to be sacrificed. And now it's dedicated to him. It's not yet sacrificed, but it's dedicated already. This is what we become. We become dedicated. We have to dedicate ourselves. Everything we do, everything we think to him without any reservation. This is the second step. And when we are in this state, what is going to follow are
 the sufferings the passions the sufferings which the lord himself had to suffer once he was dedicated well he his whole life was this dedication to the lord and to god the father and now he had to take upon himself these sufferings and these sufferings bring what they bring obedience to the will of god we read in the hebrews 5 8 that he has learned the obedience through
 Obedience to the will which tells him that you need to die for these people, for them to be saved. And we may learn from God that his will is not what we want. But as long as we have submitted ourselves to him, we need to have obedience. And it's only through suffering that we will have that obedience, brothers and sisters. And this is why this will is everything for us.
 as it is in heaven, the Lord's Prayer. The spiritual life is all about will, submitting our will to him. And by doing that, we will be sacrificed. Then follows the cross. Then follows the cup. He said, can you drink the cup which I will drink? And can you be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? With which I am baptized.
 also need to be part of this sacrifice. In whatever shape and form it may take place. It may be truly becoming martyr, okay, dying for Christ, or maybe suffering from loss of friends, family, career, anything. You might have to have sacrificed for the sake of the gospel. Okay? And it will be painful, brothers and sisters. It must be painful. And it will bring us to what?
 to completion to perfection in the same way as the lord he said it's now complete now everything is done and he's perfect perfected and he dies and he's resurrected his reason and now he has this perfect body this resurrected body which does not have any passion seen in it anymore and this body will be what
 will be glorified. That's the next step. We will be glorified and this is done by bringing it up on the throne of God. At the right hand of God the Father. Glorification. This completes the whole process of sacrifice. And we will be glorified, brothers and sisters. We will be glorified both in this age and in the age to come.
 we will not see, we will not notice our own glory because it comes only together with great repentance. When it's other people who will feel that this person is changed, is blessed, is glorified by God the Father. Through him, God acts, but we should not think about it too much. And then he said to those who are winning, I will give the wrath of glory because they will inherit my kingdom.
 And us, as we complete this journey of this age that we're now in, we will be glorified in his kingdom and receive these unfading wraths of glory if we do not fail. Okay, so for us, his sons and daughters, now the greatest question is where are we on this path? This is our spiritual life. And now the whole Pascha.
 is bringing us through what the Lord has gone through. And we need to apply this to ourselves. This is what is concerning to us and not what we're gonna eat on that table meal on Pascha or how much meat and sausage and, I don't know, wine are we gonna drink after. This is all so secondary.
 our concern and then we will be understanding much more about where we are where we going what does it mean to take up the cross and follow christ what's going on with the church okay on this path but we need to learn how to understand that and we will then also understand the holy liturgy because this is also this process of bringing the sacrifice okay and this old testament shades okay
 images of the sacrifice they will be revealed to you also through the imagery of the divine liturgy that's done now but now it is a reflection of heavenly liturgy okay which is once and for all it's not repetition okay so may we all may all of us be children of salvation brothers and sisters may all of us
 be able, together with the Lord, enter into the glory of the saints, into this inheritance of the kingdom, bringing the lamps of our faith, of our prayer, of our Christian life with us, like those wise virgins. On the Passion Week, on the Tuesday, we've recalled those ten virgins, of whom five were foolish. And they came, and all of a sudden,
 the doors are locked they went to buy some oil but doors are locked and so many of us will will come and say i sorry today i had headache i was sleeping i had something else here and there i came late sorry and you said okay time is off okay so it is now the time brothers and sisters it is now the day of us throwing out everything which is still impending which is still not allowing us
 to fully embrace the Lord and live only for Him without reservation. And then we will appreciate so much what does it mean that His resurrection is coming into this world and opening to us this new world, this new realm of the age of the Messiah. And we become really, this becomes the reality for us. And we live in Christ. And He lives in us. And this is what matters.
 And we don't want to lose it by slipping into some darkness, etc. May this reality be true for all of us, brothers and sisters. And may the Lord keep us in his holiness. I mean, merry and joyful Pascha. We will celebrate it all the way till the ascension. We are in this joyful, glorious time of when the disciples were meeting directly with resurrected Christ. And he was talking to them. But it's not recorded anywhere.
 what he was talking with them about. Because this is a mystery that only those who enter into the resurrection can know. And he will reveal these mysteries to us if we walk this path. May the joy of the resurrected Lord be with all of us. I mean, Christ is risen. Indeed, he is risen.
