 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. We are now in this 40-day period after the resurrection of Christ, in which the Lord has appeared to his disciples many times. He taught them the mystery of the kingdom of God. He also explained to them, showed to them that resurrection is real. They could not get it. They could not get it just by seeing the empty tomb.
 this testimony of first the near-bearing women, then two disciples from Emmaus, they could not get it. So he had to come to them and he had to show to them that he is alive, that he's in his body, he's not spirit. All of that had a great meaning. And today I want to talk to you about the kingdom to come, the age to come.
 after resurrection of Christ. They were path to understanding the age after common resurrection. When everybody will resurrect. At the end of this age. It's not the end of the world, as some people say. It's the end of the age. Well, first of all, the Lord came on the eighth day.
 the day of resurrection to the disciples, okay, when they were together, and he ate with them, okay, and they knew that he's alive, okay, he explained to them what happened, and later he was coming again. On the first Sunday, there was Thomas who was missing,
 okay so the lord came on the following sunday eight days later when thomas was there and in a similar way he appeared uh in the midst of them okay and he told them peace be to you and he called thomas to check okay you want to check yourself you you you don't believe okay you can put your fingers in into my wounds okay into my ribs okay you want to check
 come over okay and thomas he he felt and he confessed the faith in the lord so he was um he was now certain okay and he changed all his life and we know that he went as far as india and maybe even china fearlessly preaching the word of god doing this testimony of his resurrection okay so his unbelief he was a good unbeliever it was not uh the unbelief of uh let's
 say, those priests and Jews who crucified Christ. No. It was a good unbeliever. He knew that, okay, he loved God. He loved Christ. And he felt that it's unfair that everybody saw him, but he have not. So, he needed that extra proof to touch, to feel. And sometimes we also, we are,
 we have also, we have doubts, and we do need some kind of spiritual, at least, experience of the Lord's care, of the Lord's love, okay? So this is not the unbelief of those Pharisees, et cetera, okay? So we have many questions now. We have many questions. The first question is why in the Gospels we don't have the detailed record of what the Lord said, okay?
 Because he came, he taught them so many things. Apparently he came many times during these 40 days. Teaching them what? Teaching them very important things about the kingdom to come. But we don't have any record of that. Almost none. Only in the Gospel of John we find that when he came on the shore of this lake of Gennesaret. And then they had this meal together with the Philistines.
 he talked with Peter, calling him back, okay, and giving him the mission, the apostolic mission to care for the flock. We see that. However, that's not much, okay. If he's appeared so many times to them, why we don't have the detailed record of that? Well, I think that that's on purpose.
 That's on purpose. Because the Lord wanted the disciples to know that it's his life and teaching while before the resurrection that was super important. So I think that he put the focus on the explanation of what has happened, of what he has told them when he was still alive. The meaning of all those parables and the meaning of all the things that happened
 with him okay because otherwise they would be easily distracted diverted to pay all attention to the future to those future realities after resurrection and we had a lot of gnostic and other heretic teachings they were all fantasies about this what's gonna come this future stuff okay because they said that this world is so evil and
 materialistic, etc. So just go there and live in those fantasies. Okay, no, no. The Lord has created this world, and he has put so great attention to what is happening in this world, and he gave us the mission in this world. Because many people, they want to run away, including Christians. They think, why so much evil? There is war, there is this moral degradation,
 Okay, all kinds of crazy stuff going on. We hope that it will be over soon and everybody can go. Well, that's not Christianity. That's something else. Because the Lord, he came himself to this world so that he can show to us how to live in this world. How important it is to overcome all the temptations of this world.
 learn to love God while still here and to discover the wisdom and to preach, to do this testimony of his truth to people who are still here, okay? This is why he created this whole world, okay? He's created this whole world and we have so many thousands of years of history and cultures and different nations, languages and such a rich world, okay?
 which has so many things. It's not for nothing. It's not that it's just going to burn and finish and that's it, as something useless and meaningless. No. Yes, at some point that will happen, but the Lord wants this world to exist. He wants us to live in this world and not just finish immediately and all go to heaven. So that logic is wrong.
 We need to learn to value every day of our life here and to learn to love Christ, to see Him in people around us, to learn to love people, to do testimony. And it's a great joy, brothers and sisters, it's such a great joy to share with others love of Christ and see how the Lord is changing their hearts when they embrace Him, when they open up
 when they are born again, when their hearts become not the temple of all kinds of darkness, evil, selfishness, etc., sin, but temples of living God, of the Holy Spirit. It's such a great joy to see that. And the Lord said, whoever will do that, will do this testimony and share with others his love, it will cover many sins.
 And we do that not, of course, because of that only, but because we love Him and we want the whole world to love Him. It's a great joy when many people around you, they find, they discover, they choose Christ, the Word of God. It's so meaningful. Another question which comes is that, well, this world will end eventually.
 another world but is it true because for us it's so difficult to imagine how can we all live in some new world and that new world is we're still in bodies yes resurrected bodies but how come we are in these in these bodies and we cannot sin okay and what do we do i mean how do we live with god in that in that new
 come maybe it's just all you know some some made up story well we see that the lord himself is telling his disciples about this reality he says for example that whoever is able to reach the kingdom he will no longer need to marry okay because they will be like angels living in the sky in the heavens
 They will be in this joy, in this holiness, in this light. So he tells us that there is. And also there is this kingdom. And also, remember, Martha, who was a sister of Lazarus, when she meets him, she says, I know, Lord, that my brother will resurrect when the common resurrection happens. So that was the teaching of the Lord about the common resurrection.
 His own teaching to him. So this is what he was teaching. That there will be common resurrection. For what? Just for... There must be something next. Right? And this is why we say it's the end of the age. And not the end of the world. Okay? The new age is to come. Yes, in this world everything will be burned. Whatever we see now is going to be just burned away. However, the Lord...
 The Creator will create the new heaven and new earth. How? Where? Is it going to be on this planet? Or it will be somewhere else? We don't know. And it doesn't matter much. If it would, the Lord would tell us. But that doesn't matter. Okay? We'll see. And we see there is a testimony about this by the apostles. By Apostle Paul.
 And then Apostle John. If you read Apostle Paul, his epistles, you will see how spiritual, how wise he is. Those words could not come just from man. They must come from God himself. Those things that he was saying about many different things. And he himself is telling us how joyful is going to be that life with God upon reaching this
 age to come. Okay, so we cannot just disregard and don't believe him. And Apostle John in Revelation, in the book of Revelation, he's telling us much more details about this heavenly Jerusalem and about the age to come. And we should not understand it physically when he's talking about the different stones, precious stones and the walls of this heavenly Jerusalem.
 We should not take it too physically, of course. That's why we need to learn to think symbolically. We need to think spiritually, which is difficult in our day and age. But he's telling us a lot. And the more spiritual we become, the more we can understand from what he says. And, of course, eventually we're not believing in that only because from the books we read it, okay, from the Holy Scripture.
 else's testimony. We must discover it ourselves. And with the spiritual life, with prayer, with repentance, with life according to the Word of God, we discover that these things are true. And we can have a sense of what it is directly from God. Not through books and, you know, citation, citing, okay, some verses. No. It must become part of
 of our spiritual experience and not, of course, also some fantasy land. And you know, if you have a healthy spiritual action, you'll know to tell a difference between the two. So now coming back to these 40 days, these 40 days, we are now living through these 40 days. And for us, this becomes a great experience, great experience when we feel the Lord is so
 close like the apostles they could not tell the difference if it's already the age to come that began this uh resurrected uh teacher is coming to them showing them their wounds and he doesn't die okay they must it's a mind-blowing experience so they could not really tell if they're still in this material world that okay that is limited by okay death and and suffering or they
 are already in the heavens and this similar experience we have now brothers and sisters we have now and we will need this experience of this closeness this closeness this union with the resurrected christ for us to be able to testimony to do this testimony of his love okay during the whole year to come okay on every day of our life and um
 There are many things that I also want to share with you regarding the spiritual experience of this world, which the Lord is sharing with others, that we can see in this world, in this history of this world. We do mission in these pagan places, in these pagan countries.
 in that era before BC, they were also searching for God and they also had some revelation. But after it became different. We can say that the new era that began from the time of resurrection of Christ was not only for the church, it was for the whole world. And this is why those who chose not to be with Christ, they went astray.
 And the development of all these pagan religions later became very, very sad. Because they were demon-possessed. Pretty much they were demon-possessed. And they've developed all kinds of these very strange and very sick forms of worshipping. So this is another topic that I want to share with you.
 some other time okay but i just uh today i just want to share with you the this mystery appreciation of this mystery of the heavens of the true realm of spiritual life life in christ with christ when we don't don't need any intermediaries
 anymore when we can open up our hearts to the living god and embrace the resurrected christ to come and live within us which was not possible not just for pagans but even for the prophets and these saints of the old testament it was not possible but it is possible for us now for us who find the source of light the source of truth and who open up towards the grace of the
 Lord. And there are so many ways of going astray. So many ways. That's why we have so many different sects and heresies and philosophies and religions and whatnot. It's amazing. But the truth is shining forth. We just need to humbly seek for it and embrace it. And the living God will be with us and it will be so sure that
 you will not doubt it. As soon as you'll find it, you will not doubt it. May the Lord, the resurrected Christ, be with all of you. His grace, His joy, His wisdom be with you every day of your life. And may He help us do our testimony of Him in this world. Amen. Christ is risen, brothers and sisters.
