 Dear brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. Now, during these 40 days of Pascha, we think deeply about our relationship with the resurrected Christ. How does the Lord connect, communicate with His Church, with the body, with the Church which He has established, for what purpose He came to this world? How does this happen? We will see that as soon as we lose the faith,
 Even if we are Orthodox, by baptism, by confession, we lose this communication. We follow the path of the heretics. Because with the heretics, there is this clear break. Let us first see what's going on with the heretics, with the people who claim to be Christians, but who have lost this union with the body of Christ,
 this connection and are splitting splitting splitting splitting splitting and even if they don't split like the catholics still they are split from christ okay and uh let's see this is not my belief okay this is not my belief just uh just um think about it yourself okay uh if uh christ who came to this world uh he established his church uh he established this church for what
 purpose. He established this church for the purpose of living in this church. He said, this is my body. And however, he has checked his mouth, okay, and only those records in the gospel of the words that he says, only those records of his words, only they count, because he cannot say anything else. Okay? This idea that only Scripture,
 This Protestant heresy only scripture that God cannot talk to people in any other way. Okay, so God has talked to the prophets. He has talked to the people of Israel for over a thousand years before coming of Christ. In the time when Christ has not yet born and the time when people were still far away, right? Because the Lord said that
 I come and now the kingdom of God will be opened. So before it was closed. And in those years when the kingdom of God was closed and people were still deprived of the salvation of Christ, he has not yet been crucified and resurrected. But in those years, yes, God, he was talking to these prophets and they were recording all these books
 Testament for over a thousand years. And until now we read these books as the word of God. So he apparently spoke to them back then. But after that, after these events of the New Testament and these epistles which were written by the apostles, after that God has shut his mouth. He cannot say anything else. The Holy Spirit is silent.
 can know about god is you have to read those books that's the only thing uh do you know what it's uh this is um uh in in the nutshell what what what what this is this is judaism okay this is the jewish way of looking at the scripture at the time of christ it already became like that okay even worse actually okay at the time of christ uh basically uh they became
 these professional scholars who just read. Here, these words, we see it appears 30 times. And here we can see these words in this context, in this context. It became just scholarly book study. And this is why when people heard Christ speaking about the way of God, the law of God, they were amazed.
 Why? Because he is the law of God. They were just reading these books, but he is the Torah, the law of God. He is the lawmaker, the source of this law, and he is the word of God. So this is why when he speaks, he says what God wants to say to people directly. And he gives this ability to the church, because the church is his own instrument.
 We need to appreciate this. We need to seek for this reality and not just treat it as a dogma. It's not just some dogma. This must become daily reality for the church. Okay, but for Protestants, even conceptually, even in their understanding of God, they said, no, no, no, this is impossible. This is impossible. Solo scriptura. Only this book. Okay, it dropped from the heaven.
 This book, it was dropped to us from the heaven, and now we are in possession of this book. So whenever you say something, oh, where is it set? It's here, let me find it, let me find it. Okay? Because they have nothing else. But you'll tell me that, Father, we saw many Protestants who are not like that, okay? Who talk to God every day, okay?
 you that um uh really people many people they cannot be these book worshipers okay and they're seeking for some alive relationship some real everyday relationship with the living god that they are supposedly now believing and following but since they don't have first the
 Theology tells them, no, no, no, sola scriptura. So first they have this mental conflict that their belief is not in line with their practice. And they begin just completely speculative, completely detached from anything, you know, flight into some fantasy land.
 or into some demon possession, like all those charismats. And they think that that is the real true communication with God on a daily basis. But then you can ask them, guys, aren't you Protestants? Where is this? Okay, you tell me that today, this morning, God the Father told you ABC. Okay, where is this written in the Bible? Show me what you just told me. And if it's not written there, let's write another Bible.
 those things if they are told to you well why we cannot get the benefit from this revelation that you've received we also want to you know we all want to partake in this revelation because it's given by god to you okay no problem well they won't do that they're not so crazy well some become that crazy and they establish new churches and sects and like all this
 Helen White and all this other stuff. So some do go that far, okay? But most, they are afraid of going that far, okay? Well, do you think Catholics are much better? For the Catholics, it's also, I can tell you, it's either this book worshipping, it's just more books.
 and other books, okay? Catechism of the Catholic Church and other, okay, Bullas of Papa, all those encyclicals and all that stuff, okay? It's just more books, and they are also book worshippers. Or they become what we call mind worshippers, okay? Mind worshippers. That they go and they read some books. Heidegger, Habermas,
 Bergson, I don't know, some of those, you know, philosophers, modern or not modern, okay, some people like Thomas, etc., and they become worshippers of their ideas, okay? That's the liberal, more liberal fraction, okay? That would say catechism, I'm not talking about Thomists, I'm talking about the, like,
 Adepts of these modern philosophies. They would say. Well no. This catechism of the catholic church. We don't believe. But we know that this and this. And some like. I don't know. There are names. I don't want to list them. So that's the situation. Why that happens. Is because they are split from the church. They are heretics. This is very simple. Very simple thing.
 So they're quite honest, I must tell you. They're quite honest in that they do not have... I'm talking about Protestants. They do not have the Word of God with them right now. And they say, we do not have it. Sola Scriptura. It's only in that book. That's it. So it's quite honest. Yes. Well, I think it's enough to talk about the heretics. Let's see what's going on in the Orthodox Church.
 because that concerns us much more. And we see that it's not much different. It's not much different as soon as you lose the living connection with Christ, as soon as you do not have spiritual life, or you have a wrong spiritual life, and you are becoming book worshiper, okay? Now it's even worse than book worshiper, okay? First you become book worshiper, like many people become. What does that mean?
 you have the scripture, the Bible, and you have the Holy Fathers and these holy canons. And you think that, okay, you have now this, you're not only this, like Protestants, you have everything, and that's it, and you're safe, and you're grounded to Christ. Well, no, that doesn't work that way. Because you have to put great effort every day into mortifying your old self.
 in following christ in carrying your cross in penetrating the wisdom of god in the scripture in the world around you everywhere through intensive spiritual life through studies of the scripture of the holy fathers relentlessly okay and then you will be able okay to to know
 What Christ is telling you? Okay, you will not challenge the authority of the scripture, of the Holy Fathers. Of course, we do not challenge their authority. We see that they had the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit spoke through them to us. But we can see it not dogmatically, not because it's a dogma,
 Because we are also not deprived of the Holy Spirit. As Apostle Paul says, that I am not deprived of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit has to be in our hearts, okay? For us to be able to understand, to appreciate the breath, the breath and the message of the Holy Spirit that we can see and read in the Scripture.
 situations problems that are not given to us by the holy fathers directly because um understanding of the uh of the message of god is not frozen it's not frozen in the text it's in the application of this text into everyday life that makes us discover discover the meaning of the word of god that is spoken to us that is spoken to us
 through the scripture, through the Holy Fathers. So one of the reasons for not be able to extract these meanings is the lack of spiritual life, as I said. And another reason which is related to that is the modern education, brothers and sisters, almost everywhere, almost everywhere. The education that is not developing your ability to,
 to grow, be it mental growth or spiritual growth. Okay? Let's first talk about this, when we are just told to memorize. Okay? This system of memorization. Or this stupid system of these tasks at ABC, just multiple choice questions. This makes you so stupid that you really, you are unable to think. Okay? And from the childhood, you believe in some dogmas. From the childhood,
 you believe in some idols, Einstein, I don't know, Shakespeare. You have those, you know, those names. In Russia, let's say, it's Pushkin, Lermontov, Tolstoy, okay? It's like in those Soviet times that whatever you talk about, you first need to quote Marx and Lenin, and then you can talk about whatever you want, okay? Because those are the idols, okay? You need to first do libation to those idols.
 So this idol worshipping mentality is nurtured from the childhood. And then the modern world lives by that. Idols. They call themselves idols. You see the magazines in the shop. It's all with these idols. I don't know. I don't even want to list those names. Some are great stars. Others are great villains. But it's all about idol worshipping.
 So, brothers and sisters, when we are nurtured from childhood in that mentality, we come to the church and we think that that's normal. And we bring this into the church. And we think this is the orthodox way of looking at things. As soon as this is said by John Chrysostom or Basil the Great, this is it. This is it. We take it and we are running with this, like,
 Those bureaucrats run with those papers, and they don't know what to do with them. But they think it's all about the papers. So we have a lot of that in the church, brothers and sisters. We have this old right schism, which happened because of that. Because people thought, you cannot change even a little comma, and if you do, you're Antichrist, you're hell, you're devil.
 And until now, there is a great fear that if we do any revision to our, let's say, liturgical ways or texts, that you are some liberal, some kind of Protestant. But who truly are Protestants are they, for these book worshippers.
 This tells us about great immaturity and great lack of living relationship with Christ, which is unfortunately the result of the secularization that we see in our days. And this problem was big already in the 19th century and even before. So it's nothing new. It's nothing new. It's just getting worse. So today I wanted to indicate this problem.
 to call your attention to that. Of course, we don't want to sleep into liberalism. We don't want to sleep into all that renewalist mindset, okay, that we have a lot of people in there already. But we should not think that just conservative preservation of some forms is going to keep us safe. It's not. It's not going to keep us in Christ. Okay, this is like you have,
 instruction manual, like, let's say you're a soldier in the war, you know, in the army they have those instruction manuals that, okay, if you do this, you need to do that, if you have 50 people marching through the forest and you run out of water, you need to do this, this, okay, all those, you know, rules, okay, that you need to go by. Well, if you just treat those rules as your, you know,
 salvation manual if a then b all these algorithms you just blindly memorize and just do according to these instructions you will be destroyed right away in the real war situation you will die right away okay because first you don't understand the logic of that manual and second you do not have practice of using it you think that just by memorizing it you can win
 You can survive. No. The same thing goes with the texts that we have, including the holy canons, including the holy scripture, including everything that we have available at our disposal in the church. And I must tell you, brothers and sisters, it's much worse even than that. Because now people don't even bother reading it or memorizing, leave alone memorizing.
 You know, even to become an idol worshiper, it's not that easy, okay? And what do we expect? We expect that everything just comes with free lunch. All of a sudden, we become super spiritual. We gain the kingdom of God by not doing anything, not caring about anything, being lazy, being masters, ministers of the flesh, of mammon, of daily routine, just worldly involvement,
 the finding time and um effort uh to to go study to go uh pray okay to to to go to church to prepare well for the holy eucharist we don't have uh time for that okay we are so busy with what okay let's be honest to ourselves okay let's be honest about the the the situation we are in it's a very bad situation and when the people are telling you let's just relax peace peace
 man peace well i tell you that uh it's not the peace from above it's peace of the flesh okay it's a piece of the dead corpse if we really truly want to receive the peace coming from above we have to have great zeal great eagerness spiritual fire in us in pursuing the truth in fighting for the truth in ministering in witnessing the truth through our life through our prayer
 that that must be uh what is keeping us otherwise we are lukewarm we're not cold not hot we're nothing and the lord said i will spit you out of my mouth okay may the lord keep us from that may he truly give us joy of his resurrection may he give us peace from above and this eagerness of ministering him of living in him
 penetrating in the truth that he gives to us okay becoming children of salvation children of his kingdom and gaining gaining the true joy of being his faithful servants and friends in this world and in the world to come i mean god bless brothers and sisters christ is risen indeed he is risen
